Measurement of interest, present value. Equations of value. Basic annuities: immediate, due, perpetuity. General annuities. Yield rates: cash flow analysis, reinvestment rate, portfolio and investment year methods. Amortization schedules and sinking funds. Bonds and other securities. Applications: real estate mortgages depreciation methods. Interest rate disclosure and regulation in Canada. Covers the interest theory portion of Exam FM of the Society of Actuaries. Prerequisite: MATH 152. Students with credit for ACMA 310 may not take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Limited fluctuation credibility theory: full credibility, partial credibility. Greatest accuracy credibility theory: the Bayesian methodology, the credibility premium, the Buhlmann model, the Buhlmann-Straub model, exact credibility, linear versus Bayesian versus no credibility. Empirical Bayes parameter estimation: nonparametric estimation, semiparametric estimation, parametric estimation. Simulation: basics of simulation, simulation in actuarial modeling. Covers part of the syllabus for Exam C of the Society of Actuaries, and Exam 4 of the Casualty Actuarial Society. Prerequisite: STAT 285. Quantitative.
Survival distributions: age at death, life tables, fractional ages, mortality laws, select and ultimate life tables. Life insurance: actuarial present value function (apv), moments of apv, basic life insurance contracts, portfolio. Life annuities: actuarial accumulation function, moments of apv, basic life annuities. Net annual premiums: actuarial equivalence principle, loss function, accumulation type benefits. Actuarial reserves: prospective loss function, basic contracts, recursive equations, fractional durations. Covers part of the syllabus for Exam M of the Society of Actuaries and Exam 3 of the Casualty Actuarial Society, and covers practical applications such as computational aspects of pricing and reserving, and risk measurement of insurance portfolios. Prerequisite: MATH 232, STAT 285, and ACMA 210 (with a grade of C+ or higher). Quantitative.
Basic distributional quantities: moments, percentiles, generating functions and sums of random variables. Classifying and creating distributions. Frequency and severity with coverage modifications: deductibles, the loss elimination ratio and the effect of inflation for ordinary deductibles, policy limits, coinsurance. Aggregate loss models. Multi-state transition models with actuarial applications: non-homogeneous Markov chains, cash flows and their actuarial present values. The exponential distribution and the Poisson process. Covers part of the syllabus for Exam M of the Society of Actuaries, and Exam 3 of Casualty Actuarial Society. Prerequisite: ACMA 320. Quantitative.
Topics in areas of actuarial science not covered in the regular certificate curriculum of the department. Prerequisite: dependent on the topics covered.
Actuarial reserves: allocation of the loss to the policy years. Multiple life functions: joint-life, last-survivor. Multiple decrement models: stochastic and deterministic approaches, associated single decrement, fractional durations. Valuation theory for pension plans. Insurance models including expenses: gross premiums and reserves, type of expenses, modified reserves. Nonforfeiture benefits and dividends: equity concept, cash values insurance options, asset shares, dividends. Covers part of the syllabus for Exam M of the Society of Actuaries and Exam 3 of the Casualty Actuarial Society. Prerequisite: ACMA 320. Quantitative.
Quality of an estimator: unbiasedness, asymptotic unbiasedness, consistency, means squared error, uniform minimum variance. Confidence interval. Tests of hypotheses. Estimation for complete data. Estimation for grouped data. Estimation for modified data: Kaplan-Meier estimator, variances and confidence intervals of the empirical estimator, kernel density estimator. Parameter estimation. Variance of the estimators and confidence intervals. Model selection: graphical procedures, goodness-of-fit test, likelihood ratio test. Interpolation and smoothing. Covers part of the syllabus for Exam C of the Society of Actuaries and Exam 4 of the Casualty Actuarial Society. Prerequisite: ACMA 320. Quantitative.
Data: Sources and Errors. Measures of mortality and fertility: Crude rates, Age-specific mortality rates, Adjusted measures of mortality. Construction of Life Tables from census data: 1989-91 U.S. Life Table, 1990-92 Canadian Life Table. Stationary Population Theory: survivorship group, Lexis diagram. Stable Population Theory: Sharpe-Lotka theorem, growth rate, quasi-stable populations. Population Projections: logistic curve, component method. Uses of Census Data: Funding Social Security. Prerequisite: ACMA 320. Cannot repeat for credit if taken as STAT 490 or ACMA 490 previously. Quantitative.
Ratemaking: terminology, process, trend, ultimate losses, expense provisions, profit and contingencies, overall rate indications, classification rates, increased limits. Individual risk rating: prospective systems, retrospective rating, design. Loss Reserving: accounting concepts, definitions, principles, loss reserving process. Risk classification: relationship to other mechanisms, criteria for selecting rating variables, examples, efficiency, estimating class relativities. Covers part of the syllabus for Exam 5 of Casualty Actuarial Society. Prerequisite: ACMA 320. Cannot repeat for credit if taken as STAT 490 or ACMA 490 previously. Quantitative.
Overview of pension plans: design, funding, regulation, accounting standards. Pension funding methods: actuarial cost methods, terminal funding method. Individual actuarial cost methods: accrual benefit cost method, entry-age actuarial cost method, unit-credit method, individual-level-premium method, attainted-age-normal method. Group actuarial cost methods. Prerequisite: ACMA 320. Corequisite: ACMA 425. Cannot repeat for credit if taken as STAT 490 or ACMA 490 previously. Quantitative.
The topics included in this course will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: dependent on the topic covered.
Independent study and/or research in topics chosen in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: written permission from the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science undergraduate curriculum committee.
Life insurance models. Interest rate models for life insurance: time series, stochastic differential equations, estimation. Portfolios of identical policies. Diversified portfolios. Prerequisite: ACMA 320.
Advanced non-life insurance mathematics. Individual risk models, collective risk models, ruin models. Actuarial reserve models: Bonus-malus system, IBNR techniques. Generalized linear models in Actuarial Science. Prerequisite: ACMA 335.
Actuarial risks. Insurance premium calculation principles and properties. Risk measures and ordering. Applications. Prerequisite: ACMA 335.
No description available
Designed to give students a systematic knowledge of the workings of Canadian law and the Canadian legal system. Provides a comprehensive discussion of the various principles and schools of jurisprudence, and will canvass the basic legal institutions in Canada. Considers the history of Canadian law, the development of the framework of the Canadian constitution, the Constitution itself, the roles and responsibilities of Canadian courts and the roles and responsibilities of members of the legal profession. Ensures that students gain a comprehensive understanding of the nature of legal reasoning, the doctrines of precedent and stare decicis, and the key rules and principles of statutory interpretation. Students will also be given a systematic introduction to four substantive areas of law: criminal law, administrative law, family law, and tort law.
Designed to give students a solid foundation in legal research and writing skills. Provides students with an overview of how both legislation and case law are created, including consideration of the basic principles of legal analysis. Proper legal research techniques and strategies will be considered for both primary and secondary legal sources. Consideration will also be given to the many on-line legal research resources. Finally, students will receive instruction in the general principles of legal writing and apply these principles to different types of legal writing including analytical writing and the drafting of legal documents.
Designed to give students a solid grounding in the central themes of legal philosophy. Examines the major schools of jurisprudence. Affords an opportunity to reflect in a disciplined and critical way on the structure and functions of law, legal institutions and systems. Involves an analysis of the nature of legal reasoning and discourse, and looks to the connections between law and morality.
Introduces students to the fundamental principles underlying Contract Law in Canada, and the practical application of such principles in the commercial environment. Students will learn the essential elements of what makes an "enforceable contract" such as offer and acceptance, certainty of terms, form and consideration as well as those things that may well make a contract unenforceable, such as misrepresentation, frustration, duress and privity issues. Warranties, representations, conditions and remedies for breach of contract will also be covered, as will contractual interpretation.
Involves the study of basic principles and statutory regimes which govern the institution of Real Property. Topics addressed will include: the legal concept of land, the nature of and rationale for property, transfer of interests in land, registration of title and the nature of the land title system, the acquisition of estates in land, co-ownership of land, and future interests.
Deals with the law relating to vendors and purchasers of real estate, particularly as affected by the substantive law of mortgages, and considers the remedies available to vendors, purchasers, mortgagors and mortgagees, as well as the role and duties of real estate agents. Also deals with residential and commercial tenancies.
Provides an overview of the law of succession and familiarizes students with the principles necessary to competently advise clients about the transfer of property on death and to draft a will that meets the client's objectives. Powers of Attorney and Representation Agreements as planning tools will be examined.
Designed to give students a detailed understanding of key topics in applied legal studies, with a particular emphasis upon areas of low and practice that are of special interest to Notaries Public. Topics may change from year to year and may vary by in instructor but it is anticipated that topics will include, the law of agency; current issues in tax law; the law affecting business/not for profit incorporation, and business associations.
Builds on the theoretical understanding students have by exploring how the legal advisor assists clients in effectively dealing with their issues. Topics range from the purpose of legal professionals to developing sustainable strategies for the operation of a legal practice.
A final examination on core subjects, which will normally occur towards the end of the student's fourth term in the program.
Hilbert spaces. Calculus of variations. Sturm-Liouville problems and special functions. Green's functions in one dimension. Integral equations. Prerequisite: MATH 314 or equivalent. Students with credit for MATH 900 may not take APMA 900 for further credit. Recommended: MATH 419.
First order partial differential equations. Characteristics. Eigenfunction expansions and integral transforms. Discontinuities and singularities; weak solutions. Green's functions. Variational methods. Prerequisite: MATH 314 or equivalent. Students with credit for MATH 901 may not take APMA 901 for further credit. Recommended: MATH 418.
Review of complex power series and contour integration. Conformal mapping, Schwartz-Christoffel transformation. Special functions. Asymptotic expansions. Integral transform. Prerequisite: MATH 322 or equivalent. Students with credit for MATH 836 or 902 may not take APMA 902 for further credit.
Infinite dimensional vector spaces, convergence, generalized Fourier series. Operator Theory; the Fredholm alternative. Application to integral equations and Sturm-Liouville systems. Spectral theory. Prerequisite: MATH 900 or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for MATH 905 may not take APMA 905 for further credit.
The solutions and properties of ordinary differential equations and systems of ordinary differential equations in the real and complex domains. Prerequisite: MATH 415 or equivalent. Students with credit for MATH 842 or 910 may not take APMA 910 for further credit.
An advanced course on partial differential equations. Topics covered usually will include quasi-linear first order systems and hyperbolic, parabolic and elliptic second-order equations. Prerequisite: MATH 901 or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for MATH 845 or 912 may not take APMA 912 for further credit.
Direct and iterative methods for the numerical solution of linear systems, factorization techniques, linear least squares problems, eigenvalue problems. Techniques for parallel architectures. Students with credit for MATH 850 or 920 may not take APMA 920 for further credit.
Study of the practical numerical methods for solving initial and boundary value problems for ordinary differential equations. Students with credit for MATH 851 or 921 may not take APMA 921 for further credit.
Analysis and application of numerical methods for solving partial differential equations. Finite difference methods, spectral methods, multigrid methods. Students with credit for MATH 852 or 922 may not take APMA 922 for further credit.
Numerical solution of systems of nonlinear equations, and unconstrained optimization problems. Newton's method, Quasi-Newton methods, secant methods, and conjugate gradient algorithms. Students with credit for MATH 853 or 923 may not take APMA 923 for further credit.
Study of a specialized area of numerical analysis such as computational fluid dynamics, approximation theory, integral equations, integral transforms, computational complex analysis, special functions, numerical quadrature and multiple integrals, constrained optimization, finite elements methods, sparse matrix techniques, or parallel algorithms in scientific computing.
Basic equations and theorems of fluid mechanics. Incompressible flow. Compressible flow. Effects of viscosity. Prerequisite: MATH 361 or equivalent. Students with credit for MATH 930 may not take APMA 930 for further credit. Recommended: MATH 462.
Study of a specialized area of fluid dynamics such as hydrodynamic stability, multiphase flow, non-Newtonian fluids, computational fluid dynamics, boundary-layer theory, magnetic fluids and plasmas, bio- and geo-fluid mechanics, gas dynamics. Prerequisite: APMA 930 or permission of the instructor.
Analysis of models from the natural and applied sciences via analytical, asymptotic and numerical studies of ordinary and partial differential equations. Prerequisite: MATH 418 and MACM 316 or equivalent. Students with credit for MATH 883 or 935 may not take APMA 935 for further credit.
Study of a specialized area of the mechanics of solids such as composite materials, micromechanics, fracture, plate and shell theory, creep, computational solid mechanics, wave propagation, contact mechanics. Prerequisite: APMA 935 or permission of the instructor.
No description available
No description available
No description available
A broad survey of human cultural development from the late Palaeolithic/PalaeoIndian periods (ca 40,000 BP) to the rise of civilization and empires, in both the Old and New Worlds. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A non-technical survey of the primate background of humans, fossil primates, and fossil humans, and the associated evidence of cultural development. An introduction to physical anthropology. Breadth-Social Sciences/Science.
Non-specialized introductory summaries of selected regional topics in world prehistory. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A survey of methods used by archaeologists to discover and interpret the past. Examples will be drawn from selected sites and cultures around the world. Students who have taken ARCH 101 may not enrol in ARCH 201. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A summary review of the pre-contact native cultures of Canada, from their beginnings to the arrival of Europeans, as revealed by archaeology. Lectures focus on how and when the first humans appeared in the land now known as Canada, and how their cultures changed over time, organized in terms of eight 'archaeological regions,' beginning with the Atlantic coast and then moving west and north. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Charts the emergence and changes in the expression of human religious behavior. It covers the earliest rituals of the Palaeolithic, the importance of fertility cults, ancestor cults, alliance rituals, shamans, witchcraft, and monotheism. Prerequisite: any lower division archaeology or anthropology course. Breadth-Humanities/Social Sciences.
Exploration of the major cultural developments in Africa from the origin of humankind to the rise of several ancient civilizations, with special emphasis on ancient Egypt. Students are exposed to various approaches taken by palaeoanthropologists, prehistoric archaeologists, historians and Egyptologists. Prerequisite: Students who have taken ARCH 200 under this title may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities/Social Science.
A survey of the major centres of Old World cultural development from the Palaeolithic to the Bronze Age. Basic concepts used in reconstructing prehistoric cultures, and the artifactual and contextual evidence for the development of culture. Prerequisite: ARCH 100 or 201. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A survey of prehistoric cultures of North and South America. The peopling of the New World, the rise of the pre-Columbian civilizations of Mexico and Peru, and the cultural adaptations by prehistoric populations to other parts of the New World. Prerequisite: ARCH 100 or 201. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Art styles and traditions of prehistoric and preliterate peoples in one or more world cultural areas. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of various scientific methods of dating archaeological samples, including Carbon 14, thermoluminescence, obsidian-hydration, fission track, potassium-argon, magnetic, and other dating techniques.
Intensive study of the prehistoric cultures of Latin America. Emphasis will be on the development of the civilizations of prehistoric Mexico and Peru. Prerequisite: ARCH 273 or LAS 140. ARCH 330 is identical to LAS 330, and students cannot receive credit for both courses. Writing.
This course will be offered from time to time to meet special needs of students and to make use of specializations of visiting faculty members. Prerequisite: to be announced.
This course will be offered from time to time to meet special needs of students and to make use of specializations of visiting faculty members. Prerequisite: to be announced.
This course will be offered from time to time to meet special needs of students and to make use of specializations of visiting faculty members. Prerequisite: to be announced.
Art styles and traditions of prehistoric and preliterate peoples in selected world cultural areas. Prerequisite: to be announced. Breadth-Humanities.
Reviews major archaeological discoveries of China concerning human evolution, the origins of agriculture, the development of early complex societies, and the origin of Chinese civilization. The focus is prehistoric archaeology but includes the early historic/dynastic periods. Prerequisite: ARCH 131 or 201. Students who have taken ARCH 333 or 335 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
This lab practicum serves two interdependent functions: as an on-going and regular end-of-season analysis and processing session, for both pottery and small-finds; and as an initial pottery study for the ceramic wares of ancient (Archaic & Classical) Kefalonia, which have never been scientifically investigated. In addition, this practicum will entail an on-going survey of Greek pottery of the period, its shapes, styles, and local and regional variations; as well as its uses in society generally and in a funerary context in particular.
An introduction to the study of animal remains from archaeological sites. Coverage of the major concepts and methods used in the study of animal remains and detailed practical coverage of the vertebrate skeleton. Prerequisite: ARCH 201.
The evolution of the primate order and the ecology and behavior characterizing the different grades of primates: prosimians, monkeys, and apes. Current trends in interpreting primate behavior are emphasized. Prerequisite: ARCH 131 or any lower division biology course.
An introduction to archaeological conservation, the processes affecting the condition of archaeological materials prior to excavation, during excavation, during analysis, exhibition and during reposition. Successful completion of this course will give archaeologists a good understanding of the various materials they encounter during excavation and how to preserve these artifacts and other materials. It will not qualify students to be professional archaeological  conservators. Prerequisite: six units in Archaeology, including ARCH 201. Students who have taken ARCH 335 Special Topics in Archaeology: Archaeological Conservation may not take ARCH 348 for further credit.
The philosophy, policies and practices of the care of archaeological collections. This lecture and laboratory course treats the practical problems of designing museum programs within a framework of legal responsibilities for collections. Contemporary issues such as repatriation will be discussed. Prerequisite: three 200 division archaeology courses.
First term of work experience in the Archaeology Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: normally 45 units with a CGPA of 3.0 and the following courses are recommended: both ARCH 131 and 201; either ARCH 272 or 273; and three of ARCH 372, 373, 376, 377, 386, 442.
Second term of work experience in the Archaeology Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: normally 45 units with a CGPA of 3.0 and ARCH 350.
A descriptive study of the cultures of North American natives north of Mexico, as they were at initial European contact, organized on a culture area basis. Native groups in each area will be discussed in terms of languages, population estimates, early post-contact history and its impact on traditional ways of life, dominant ethnographic economic/adaptive emphases, socio-political organization, religion, ceremony and warfare. Prerequisite: ARCH 201 and 273.
Deals with the techniques for reconstruction of past environments, as well as the effect of environment on past settlements and people. Environment as considered in the course will encompass the presence of other settlements, and deal with relationships among settlements. Prerequisite: ARCH 201.
Analysis and interpretation of archaeological material culture. This lecture and laboratory course combines the practical problems of recognition and interpretation of archaeological specimens, typology, seriation, and statistical procedures with the basic principles of archaeological theory. Prerequisite: ARCH 201.
A detailed study of the human skeleton with emphasis on lab and field techniques. Prerequisite: ARCH 131.
Theory, method, and operation of the application of statistical techniques to the description, classification, analysis, and interpretation of archaeological data. Prerequisite: ARCH 201, and either STAT 203 (formerly 103) or PSYC 210. Quantitative.
An introduction to theory and method in North American historical archaeology. Laboratory instruction is provided in historic artifact analysis and interpretation. Prerequisite: ARCH 201 and one lower division ARCH course.
The prehistory and cultural traditions of the region. The content, antecedents, relationships, and changes in these cultures through time. Technological, socio-economic, and environmental factors in culture growth. Prerequisite: ARCH 273.
The prehistory and cultural traditions of the region. The content, antecedents, relationships, and changes in these cultures through time. Technological, socio-economic, and environmental factors in culture growth. Prerequisite: ARCH 273.
9Introduces molecular biology techniques used to analyze DNA to address archaeological questions and applications to degraded DNA samples for forensic identification of human remains and conservation of endangered species. Prerequisite: ARCH 131 or 201. Students who have taken ARCH 334 or 335 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
The relationship between culture and biology in prehistoric human evolution. The recognition and critical evaluation of the significance of the similarities and differences among fossil human types. Prerequisite: ARCH 131 and 272.
Surveys the origins, implementations, and need for archaeological heritage legislation on an international and national scale. Topical issues associated with contract archaeology, public archaeology, native heritage, and avocational societies are incorporated. Prerequisite: ARCH 201.
An introduction to the recovery and analysis of macroscopic archaeological plant remains. The major methodological and interpretive issues in archaeobotany will be covered, with an emphasis on plant domestication in selected regions of the world. Prerequisite: ARCH 201 and either 272 or 273.
An intensive investigation of the theory and problem areas in physical anthropology. Prerequisite: ARCH 373 and either 344 or 385.
Lectures cover the archaeological background and rationale for specific field research questions, the critical relationship in any field project between the research questions asked and the methods and techniques employed, and the craft of field work including use of equipment, specific excavating, recording and cataloguing techniques, field safety and camp life. Prerequisite: normally taken concurrently with ARCH 434 and 435; ARCH 131 and 201; at least one group I course, permission of the department.
A series of exercises in which the student must demonstrate the ability to apply the various recording and mapping skills covered in the course. The graded exercises are done individually and in teams, both on-campus and in the field. Prerequisite: normally taken concurrently with ARCH 433 and 435; ARCH 131 and 201; at least one group I course; permission of the department.
A practical application of the background knowledge and specific techniques of ARCH 433 and 434. It takes place in a research oriented field excavation. Evaluation of student performance is based upon assessments of efficiency and accuracy of excavation techniques/recording procedures, and upon the student's overall contribution to the smooth functioning of the team. Prerequisite: normally taken concurrently with ARCH 433 and 434; ARCH 131 and 201; one group I course; permission of the department.
This course introduces the concept of archaeological sites as active constituents in natural Quaternary land-forming and land-altering systems. Lectures will focus on all processes which may have contributed to the present geomorphological contexts of archaeological sites and their sedimentary and pedological contents. Prerequisite: ARCH 201 and either 272 or 273.
Current techniques in identification of recent human skeletal remains. Prerequisite: ARCH 373.
Introduces the study of ancient and historic diseases in humans and animals as expressed in bones, teeth, mummified remains, art, and historical documents. Provides an essential foundation for differential diagnosis in skeletal biology and forensic osteology. Prerequisite: ARCH 373. Students who have taken ARCH 332 or 335 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
The cultural, evolutionary, physical, and distributional principles which underlie the prediction and reconstruction of the past. Prerequisite: ARCH 131, 201, 272 and 273. Writing.
Directed readings for upper level students who desire to study selected topics in depth. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
A course in which students can undertake specific laboratory, library or field based research supervised by a faculty member. It is open to students from other departments. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
An in-depth study of how to manufacture and analyze stone tools. Includes rock and mineral identification, stone working by students, fracture mechanics, and relevance to theoretical problems. Prerequisite: ARCH 372.
Directed readings in a selected field of study under the direction of a faculty member. Papers will be required. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
An honors thesis of some ten to fifteen thousand words will be written under the direction of a faculty member. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
Critical evaluation of new approaches to the study of the human past.
A seminar on selected problems in archaeological science and prehistory. Grading will be restricted to satisfactory/unsatisfactory (S/U).
A seminar on selected problems in archaeological science and prehistory. Students may take ARCH 873 for credit once in the graduate program.
Seminar focusing on the development of thesis research design and data analysis.
Directed readings under the supervision of a faculty member in the prehistory of any selected region of the world.
Intensive readings under the supervision of a faculty member in an area of interest related to the student's program.
This course will be offered from time to time to meet special needs of students and make use of specialization of visiting faculty members.
This course will be offered from time to time to meet special needs of students and to make use of specialization of visiting faculty members.
Directed laboratory, library or field research under the supervision of a faculty member in an area of interest related to the student's program.
No description available
No description available
An introductory course on Asia-Canada interactions. It will survey various issues, both historical and contemporary, including those involving Asian-Canadians. Breadth-Humanities/Social Scence.
An introductory course on Asian civilizations in three areas: East Asia, Southeast Asia and South Asia. A survey course, it is designed to cover multiple dimensions of people's lives and history in Asia. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to historical and cultural perspectives on China. Topics covered will include different aspects of traditional Chinese civilization with a view to understanding contemporary Chinese society. Prerequisite: 15 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to historical and cultural perspectives covering the basic aspects of Japan: geography, history, culture, politics, economy, etc. Prerequisite: 15 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to East, Southeast or South Asian art, literature, history or philosophy. The emphasis will be on the cultural importance of the themes covered and on their relationship to contemporary societies. Prerequisite: 15 units.
This course is part of the core courses offered in the China Field School covering topics on various aspects of Chinese culture and society, from Chinese medicine, martial arts, painting and calligraphy, etc. to contemporary life and local history in the area. Prerequisite: 15 units. Students who have taken GS 201 or 251 may not take this course for further credit.
A cross-cultural examination of the ways we perceive and represent each other in public discourse, including literature, news media, cinema, and other education and entertainment media. Prerequisite: 45 units. Recommended: one lower division ASC course.
This course will explore the experience of Asian immigrants and their children, focusing in particular on social and cultural aspects. Prerequisite: 45 units. Recommended: one lower division ASC course.
Content will vary according to interests of faculty and students but will involve China-related study within one or more of the social science or humanities disciplines. Prerequisite: 45 units. Recommended: ASC 200.
Content will vary according to interests of faculty and students but will involve Japanese-related study within one or more of the social science or humanities disciplines. Prerequisite: 45 units. Recommended: ASC 201.
Prerequisite: 45 units.
Individual study. Prerequisite: ASC 101 or 102, and one ASC 300 level course and permission of the program director.
An introduction to the basic concepts of biology, emphasizing evolution as a unifying theme. Topics include cell structure, mitosis and meiosis, DNA structure and function, evolution and population and ecosystem ecology. Students with credit for BISC 101 or 102, or succeeding biology courses, may not take BISC 100 for further credit. Students with a C or better in Biology 12, who are considering a BISC Major, are encouraged to proceed directly to BISC 101 and 102. Breadth-Science.
An introduction to the biochemical and physiological mechanisms of living organisms. Topics covered include cell structure and function, DNA replication and the flow of genetic information, enzyme function, metabolism and physiology of microorganisms, plants, and animals. Prerequisite: high school biology 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of C or better, or BISC 100. BISC 101 and 102 may be taken in any order, and are available for B-Sci credit, but are primarily designed to deliver prerequisite information to BISC majors and related departments and Faculties. Non-science students are encouraged to earn their B-Sci units in other BISC breadth courses (e.g. BISC 110, 111 and 112). Breadth-Science.
Survey of the diversity of life, and its evolutionary history on earth. The student is introduced to the study of genetics, development, and evolution, giving an overview of how these processes interact to produce form and function. Also included are principles of behavior and ecological relationships of organisms to each other and their environment. Prerequisite: high school biology 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of C or better, or BISC 100. BISC 101 and 102 may be taken in any order, and are available for B-Sci credit, but are primarily designed to deliver prerequisite information to BISC majors and related departments and Faculties. Non-science students are encouraged to earn their B-Sci units in other BISC breadth courses (e.g. BISC 110, 111, and 112). Breadth-Science.
Current theories about the origin and evolution of life on this planet. The course will include a survey of the five kingdoms to emphasize both the structural and functional diversity of living forms, as well as the characteristics shared by members of each major group. Students having credit for BISC 102 may not take BISC 110 for further credit. Breadth-Science.
Selected topics in biology intended to fulfil breadth requirements for non-majors. Topics will vary depending on instructor. Breadth-Science.
Selected topics in biology intended to fulfil breadth requirements for non-majors Topics will vary depending on instructor. Breadth-Science.
Principles and concepts of the transmission of genetic information treated comparatively in man, animal, plant and microbe. Prerequisite: BISC 101 and 102.
An introduction to biotic-environmental relationships and dynamics; ecological concepts; population dynamics, variation, adaptation and evolution. Prerequisite: BISC 101 and 102. Credit will not be granted for both BISC 204 and GEOG 215.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the Department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Undergraduate Schedule of Classes and Examinations.  Entry into this course normally requires completion of the lower division core for biological sciences, or permission of the department.
The  phenomenon of organic evolution, and the major forces leading to changes in allele frequencies over time, i.e. natural selection and genetic drift. Topics include adaptation, speciation, the origin of life, and the major evolutionary trends over geological time. Prerequisite: BISC 202. Recommended: BISC 204. Students with credit for BISC 400 may not take BISC 300 for further credit.
Discussion and manipulations of some of the organisms and techniques applicable to genetic analysis. Students are required to come into the lab on average of two hours per week in addition to the four hour scheduled lab each week for project work. Prerequisite:    BISC 202 with a grade of C- or better.
Discussion and manipulations of some of the organisms and techniques applicable to genetic analysis. Students are required to come into the lab on average of two hours per week in addition to the four hour scheduled lab each week for project work. Prerequisite:    BISC 202 with a grade of C- or better.  Writing.
The biology of micro-organisms and their significance in the understanding of cellular processes. Students are required to come into the lab on average of two hours per week in addition to the four hour scheduled lab each week for project work. Prerequisite:    BISC 102 and MBB 231.
A study of the interrelationships of animals and their physical and biotic environment. Prerequisite: BISC 101, 102 and 204.
A study of the interrelationships of animals and their physical and biotic environment. Prerequisite: BISC 101, 102, and 204. Writing.
A comparative study of basic physiological mechanisms in invertebrates and vertebrates. Prerequisite: MBB 231 and PHYS 102 (or PHYS 121 or 126 or 141) with a grade of C- or better.
An introduction to selected invertebrate phyla with an emphasis on functional morphology, diversity and ecology. Prerequisite: BISC 101, 102 and 204.
A laboratory course using contemporary techniques of animal physiological research. Prerequisite:    BISC 305 with a grade of C- or better.
A laboratory course using contemporary techniques of animal physiological research. Prerequisite:    BISC 305 with a grade of C- or better.  Equivalent Courses: BISC 307. Writing.
An examination of the primary threats to biodiversity, how biological processes contribute to the persistence of populations and structure of communities, and species and landscape approaches to conservation in the real world. Prerequisite: BISC 204. Students who have taken BISC 474 in Spring 2006 or BISC 475 in Spring 2008 as special topics courses titled 'Conservation Ecology' cannot take this course for further credit.
Field course on the ecology, distribution, and characteristics of organisms representative of various biotic regions of the province (both terrestrial and marine). Sampling techniques are emphasized. The course will normally be taught as a full-time, intensive, three week course with field trips of one to several days duration. Prerequisite: BISC 204, and one of the following: BISC 306, 316, 317, 326, 337.
This course introduces students to basic principles of toxicology and several classes of widely encountered environmental pollutants. Emphasis is on toxicology as an interdisciplinary science. This course is a prerequisite for all advanced toxicology courses. Prerequisite: MBB 231.
A review of the evolution and the taxonomy of the vertebrate classes. A comparative study of their organ systems and functions with particular reference to reproduction. A comparison of the functional morphology of some species by laboratory dissections. Prerequisite: BISC 101 and 102.
Life histories, bionomics, comparative morphology, and classification of insects and related organisms. A collection may be required, depending on instructor. Prerequisite: BISC 101 and 102.
A survey of form, function and phenetics. Prerequisite: BISC 101 and 102.
This course is designed to introduce students to basic measurement methods and instrumentation as used in modern biology. Prerequisite: CHEM 121 and 122, MBB 231, PHYS 102 (or PHYS 121 or 126 or 141), STAT 201.
Classical and modern experimental approaches will be described for understanding development of embryos of several species having common and distinctive features. These approaches are at the organismal, cellular, molecular and genetic levels. Prerequisite: BISC 202, MBB 222, MBB 231.
An introductory course covering many aspects of plant biology including the origin and evolution of plants, basic anatomy, plant growth and development and the utilization and impact of plants in human society. Prerequisite: BISC 101 and 102.
First term of work experience in the Biological Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: acceptance in the biological sciences co-operative education program.
Second term of work experience in the Biological Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: BISC 341 and re-admission to the science co-operative education program.
Introduction to various techniques in gene cloning and the applications of gene cloning. Laboratory exercises follow a sequence of events commonly practiced in many molecular genetics laboratories and include novel technologies such as cloning by site-directed recombination. Lecture content spans basic cloning in plasmids to novel large-scale genomics technologies. Prerequisite: BISC 202, MBB 222, 231. Recommended: MBB 331. Credit will not be granted for both BISC 357 and MBB 308. Cannot be taken for credit if already taken as a Special Topics course.
The plant's physical environment and the physiological basis (mechanisms and principles) of the interaction between plants and their environment in relation to their survival and ecological distribution. Prerequisite: MBB 231.
A laboratory course using contemporary techniques of plant physiological research. Prerequisite:    BISC 366 with a grade of C- or better.  
A laboratory course using contemporary techniques of plant physiological research. Prerequisite: BISC 366  with a grade of C- or better.  Equivalent Courses: BISC 367. Writing.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the Department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Undergraduate Schedule of Classes and Examinations.
The lectures will explore two or three major themes in current cell biology, such as cell motility, the cell cycle, and cellular signalling. A critical component of the course is to develop an understanding of the experimental basis of our knowledge about cells. Prerequisite: MBB 222, 231 with C- or better, and completion of 75 units, or completion of BISC 305 or 366 with a C- or better.
The study of the distribution and abundance of plants, including how individuals, populations, and communities are affected by abiotic (climate, soil) and biotic (competition, herbivory) factors. A major focus will be life history evolution (pollination, defence, disperal). Experimental and observational laboratory exercises are primarily conducted outdoors. Prerequisite: BISC 101, 102, and 204.
The study of the distribution and abundance of plants, including how individuals, populations, and communities are affected by abiotic (climate, soil) and biotic (competition, herbivory) factors. A major focus will be life history evolution (pollination, defence, disperal). Experimental and observational laboratory exercises are primarily conducted outdoors. Prerequisite: BISC 101, 102, and 204. Writing.
Physiology of neuroscience, focusing on cellular and molecular mechanisms. Topics include: cellular and subcellular organization of the nervous system, electrical properties of neurons, ion channels, synaptic transmission, sensory systems, learning and memory, neurodegenerative diseases. Prerequisite: BISC 305  with a grade of C- or better, KIN 305  with a grade of C- or better.  Students who have completed BISC 472 under the title 'Neurobiology' may not complete BISC 405 for further credit.
An introduction to the marine environment, marine organisms and the ecological and oceanographic processes affecting them. Prerequisite: BISC 306 or 316.
An evaluation of factors influencing the natural fluctuation and regulation of plant and animal population numbers. Prerequisite: BISC 304 or 404.
An introduction to the evolution of behavior and its adaptiveness in a natural context. Corequisite: BISC 304 or permission of the department.
Fisheries from an ecological point of view, whereby the principles of population dynamics, behaviour, competition and predator-prey relationships are applied to conservation and management of the world's fisheries. Prerequisite: BISC 204. Students who have taken BISC 472 with the title "Fisheries Ecology" may not take this course for further credit.
An integrated examination of biological, chemical and physical processes in lakes and running water ecosystems. Interactions among biological, chemical and physical controls on the structure, function and dynamics of aquatic ecosystems are emphasized. Environmental problems resulting from human disturbances to aquatic ecosystems are examined. Prerequisite: 75 units in a science program, including BISC 204 or GEOG 215, or permission of the instructor.
Ecology and phylogeny of animal parasites (from protozoa to helminthes), including those of humans, domestic animals and wildlife. Parasite success, host-parasite interactions, general epidemiological principles of parasitic infections, and reproductive strategies used by parasites to increase the likelihood of transmission as well as host responses and medical options for past and current parasite problems. Prerequisite:    BISC 101 and 102, and 204 or HSCI 212 and completion of 75 units. Recommended: BISC 300 and 306.
Theoretical and applied aspects of ecology and behavior in relation to wildlife populations and their habitats, with emphasis on important mammals and birds in British Columbia. Attendance on local field trips is required. Prerequisite: BISC 304.  Recommended: BISC 316.
Theoretical and experimental aspects of inheritance at the population level. Topics include Hardy-Weinberg, one- and two-locus selection theory, introduction to quantitative genetics, and Fisher's fundamental theorem of natural selection. Prerequisite: BISC 202 and STAT 201.
A systematic introduction to separation principles and strategies for the purification of biomolecules, with laboratory experiments using contemporary techniques in complex biological systems. Detailed instruction in composing and writing scientific reports. Prerequisite: MBB 222, 231, 75 units.
A systematic introduction to separation principles and strategies for the purification of biomolecules, with laboratory experiments using contemporary techniques in complex biological systems. Detailed instruction in composing and writing scientific reports. Prerequisite: MBB 222, 231, 75 units. Writing.
Interactions between major groups of microbes (including fungi, bacteria, viruses, phytoplasmas and viroids) with higher plants, including the chemical signals which trigger the onset of recognition events that result in a parasitic or mutualistic relationship, and the mechanisms of plant defense. Prerequisite: MBB 231 and at least one of BISC 303, 326, 337. Students who have completed BISC 475 under the title 'Microbe-Plant Interactions' may not complete BISC 430 for further credit.
The physical, chemical and biological properties of chemical pesticides; risks and benefits associated with their use in pest management. Prerequisite: BISC 305 or 366.  Recommended: for those who wish entry to the Master of Pest Management program.
The principles of paleoenvironmental reconstruction, emphasizing the study of pollen grains, spores, and other microfossils in solving problems of paleobiology and earth history. Prerequisite: minimum 60 units including BISC 204, or GEOG 215. Some background in botany, biogeography, or earth sciences is desirable.
Survey of the natures, causes and consequences of pest problems and of the natural and applied factors and processes that determine their occurrence and intensity. Prerequisite: BISC 317, or 75 units.
This course introduces students to the use of microorganisms in biotechnology, e.g. in the environmental, pharmaceutical and chemical industries. The lectures will cover the unique physiology/biochemistry of industrial microorganisms and their use in processes such as fermentation, bioremediation, chemical synthesis and protein production. The laboratory component is designed as a series of exercises that form a complete research project. Prerequisite: BISC 303 or equivalent.
The production and organization of biodiversity (investigations of species, and an in-depth look at taxonomy, systematics and phylogenetics). Evolutionary and ecological theories behind the patterns of biodiversity (the current and future geographic distribution of species, and how biodiversity is related to ecosystem function). The values society gives biodiversity (how our values are reflected in law and regulation). Prerequisite: BISC 300, STAT 201 or equivalent, both with C or better, plus 75 units.
The production and organization of biodiversity (investigations of species, and an in-depth look at taxonomy, systematics and phylogenetics). Evolutionary and ecological theories behind the patterns of biodiversity (the current and future geographic distribution of species, and how biodiversity is related to ecosystem function). The values society gives biodiversity (how our values are reflected in law and regulation). Prerequisite: BISC 300, STAT 201 or equivalent, both with C or better, plus 75 units. Writing.
Application of the principles and theories of evolution and ecology to the study of health and disease, with a particular but not exclusive emphasis on humans. Topics to be covered include the evolutionary ecology of infectious disease, the immune system, cancer, senescence, fetal programming, and the genetic/environmental bases of disease. The course will involve a combination of lectures by the primary faculty member teaching the course, discussions, student research projects (papers, written and revised, and presentations to the class), and specialist guest lectures. Prerequisite: BISC 202 or 204. Recommended: BISC 300.
Third term of work experience in the Biological Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: BISC 342 and re-admission to the science co-operative education program.
Fourth term of work experience in the Biological Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: BISC 443 and re-admission to the science co-operative education program.
A discussion of the physiological mechanisms and adaptations which permit animals to live in diverse environments. The course will adopt a comparative approach to physiology. Prerequisite: BISC 305.
Fifth term of work experience in the Biological Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: BISC 444 and re-admission to the science co-operative education program.
Principles of microscopy and histological techniques for sample preparation: fixation, dehydration, embedding, and sectioning. Use of lipid and nucleic acid stains and antibodies for labeling. Prerequisite: BISC 329.
A study of endocrine organs and their role in integrating physiological functions in animals. Prerequisite: BISC 305 and one of BISC 306 or 316.
An introduction to plant molecular biology and the techniques, applications and issues of plant genetic engineering. Prerequisite: MBB 222, 231.
Selected topics not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the Department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Undergraduate Schedule of Classes and Examinations.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the Department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Undergraduate Schedule of Classes and Examinations.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the Department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Course Timetable and Exam Schedule.
Selected topics not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the Department of Biological Sciences. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Course Timetable and Exam Schedule.
Prerequisite: completion of all lower division biological sciences courses, plus upper division BISC courses appropriate to the subject of the intended research as determined by the departmental undergraduate curriculum committee; completion of all physics, chemistry and mathematics requirements for the major or honors program; at the time of application, students will normally have a CGPA of 3 (B standing). BISC 490 may be taken in the term prior to BISC 491/492 by students intending to complete the three course ISS.
Prerequisite: completion of all lower division biological sciences courses, plus upper division BISC courses appropriate to the subject of the intended research as determined by the departmental undergraduate curriculum committee; completion of all physics, chemistry and mathematics requirements for the major or honors program; at the time of application, students will normally have a CGPA of 3 (B standing). Corequisite: BISC 490 and 492.
Prerequisite: completion of all lower division biological sciences courses, plus upper division BISC courses appropriate to the subject of the intended research as determined by the departmental undergraduate curriculum committee; completion of all physics, chemistry and mathematics requirements for the major or honors program; at the time of application, students will normally have a CGPA of 3 (B standing). Corequisite: BISC 490 and 491. Writing.
A student may enrol in this course only with prior written agreement of a faculty member to act as research supervisor, who will also provide instruction and feedback on the writing and presentation of results from the research. A maximum of three research courses can be applied towards degree requirements. Prerequisite:    90 units.   Writing.
A student will be permitted to enrol in this course only if he/she obtains the prior written agreement of a faculty member to act as research advisor. A maximum of three research courses can be applied towards degree requirements. Prerequisite:    Prior written agreement of a faculty member to act as research advisor. A different advisor is required BISC 499, but a student may take BISC 497W with the same advisor either following or concurrently with BISC 498.
A student will be permitted to enrol in this course only if he/she obtains the prior written agreement of a faculty member to act as research advisor. A maximum of three research courses can be applied towards degree requirements. Prerequisite:    A student will be permitted to enrol in this course only if she/he obtains the prior written agreement of a faculty member to act as research advisor.
A broad range of agricultural pests and their management, with emphasis on insects, crop diseases, and weeds in greenhouses, orchards and field crops. Pest problems in urban environments, including stored products in and near buildings.
Management of insect, microbial, vertebrate and plant pests of forests and forest products, including seed orchards, nurseries, dryland sorting areas.  Emphasis is placed on diagnosis, decision-making, interactions and techniques for forest pest management.
Agricultural pests and their management, with emphasis on insects and crop diseases, and including garden and greenhouse pests.
Insects, diseases, and other pests of fruit trees, including grapevines and small fruits, and their management.
Management of vectors, especially arthropods, of human and animal diseases, especially microbial; selected topics in epidemiology.
This course emphasizes recent development in quantitative human health risk assessment and ecological effects based risk assessment of environmental chemicals. Prerequisite: BISC 313.
This course provides the basic concepts and practical experience for the application of ecologically-based toxicity tests. Prerequisite: BISC 313.
The main focus of this course is on laboratory testing procedures currently employed in the toxicological evaluation of chemicals. Prerequisite: BISC 313 or permission of the department.
Investigates those toxic compounds in the environment which are added to, contaminate, or supplement one's diet. Prerequisite: BISC 313 or equivalent.
A structured series of seminars on the recent developments of environmental toxicology.
One term experience in a university or commercial laboratory according to student's interests. Prerequisite: acceptance into the environmental toxicology program.
First work experience for MET students. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
Second work experience for MET students. Prerequisite: Permission of the department.
Introduction to methods of writing research articles and grant proposals, preparing talks for scientific and non-scientific audiences, and writing for the media. The student-supervisor relationship and conflict resolution are also discussed.
A consideration of recent advances and current controversies in our understanding of the development, diversification and adaptation of life through natural selection.
This course considers what physiology has to offer behavioral and evolutionary ecology (and vice versa), with a focus on whole organism or 'integrative physiology.'
An introduction to the use of diving in marine/freshwater research, related underwater methodology, diving competency and current issues in marine biological research and scientific diving.
Directed studies in modern laboratory approaches to specific areas of research.
Bionomics, ecology, economic impact, and management of the major groups of insects, based on intensive reviews of information on representative species. Prerequisite: BISC 317 or permission of the department.
A survey of the diverse molecular mechanisms used by selected bacteria, viruses, fungi, and prions to colonize the human host and cause disease. Prerequisite: undergraduate course in microbiology or permission of the instructor.
This seminar course provides a rigorous introduction to recent research in cell biology. Papers will be selected along a particular theme, but there is always a strong emphasis on the experimental basis of our knowledge about celluar mechanisms. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. A student may not take more than 3 units of Cell and Molecular Biology Colloquium courses, including MBB 821, 822, 823.
This seminar course provides a rigorous introduction to recent research in cell biology. Papers will be selected along a particular theme, but there is always a strong emphasis on the experimental basis of our knowledge about celluar mechanisms. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. A student may not take more than 3 units of Cell and Molecular Biology Colloquium courses, including MBB 821, 822, 823.
This seminar course provides a rigorous introduction to recent research in cell biology. Papers will be selected along a particular theme, but there is always a strong emphasis on the experimental basis of our knowledge about celluar mechanisms. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. A student may not take more than 3 units of Cell and Molecular Biology Colloquium courses, including MBB 821, 822, 823.
An examination of strategies for resource acquisition and allocation, and the behavioral, ecological and life history means whereby organisms maximize lifetime reproductive success.
An introduction to the important issues, methods and philosophy of behavioral ecology, and discussion of current topics. Prerequisite: BISC 304 and 410 or permission of the department.
An intensive survey course of current modeling techniques used for analysis of problems in behavioral ecology.
This course will illustrate the value of applying ecological theory, particularly concerning life history and demography, to issues of management and conservation. Examination of life history characteristics and variability of individuals will demonstrate how knowledge of demography and population parameters are essential for effective conservation. Emphasis will be on vertebrate species.
Interspecific interactions, community assembly, and diversity estimation in ecology.
Advanced research seminars on a variety of current, cutting-edge biological topics.
Advanced research seminars on a variety of current, cutting-edge biological topics.
Advanced research seminars on a variety of current, cutting-edge biological topics.
Review of basic processes in cell biology including, but not limited to, cell adhesion/migration, cytoskeleton, endo/exocytosis, intracellular trafficking, signal transduction, ion homeostasis, energy generation, protein processing/apoptosis, post-translation modifications, genomics. A review of each topic will be followed by an introduction to cutting-edge work in this field. Prerequisite: permission of the course co-ordinator.
Theory and practice of population modeling and demographic analysis.
This course introduces students to the use of micro-organisms in biotechnology, e.g. in the environmental, pharmaceutical and chemical industries. The lectures will cover the unique physiology and biochemistry of industrial micro-organisms as well as discussing their use in various processes including industrial fermentation, bioremediation, chemical synthesis and protein production (e.g. vaccines) by recombinant organisms. Prerequisite: a second or third year undergraduate microbiology course.
An examination of the major factors that lead to development of soil-associated and foliar plant diseases in cultivated crops, in relation to the nature, underlying principles, application and limitations of various types of control practices.
An examination of hormonal and nutritional factors that influence growth and development, as well as energy metabolism in insects, with emphasis on the molecular mechanisms involved in their regulation.
Principles, theory, and practice of the use of living organisms in the natural regulation and the control of organisms. Emphasis will be on parasitic insects, and include host specificity, genetics, genetic controls, and the evolution of host-parasite associations.
The chemistry of insecticides, with emphasis on their toxicology, metabolism and molecular mechanism of action.
Status and special problems of research development and implementation of pest management programs in different kinds of ecosystems; consideration of factors such as management systems, economics, communication, legal and social constraints, and ethics in the practice of pest management.
An independent research thesis based on laboratory or field-based research and focused on some aspect of pest management. The research may be supervised by any faculty member in the Department of Biological Sciences.
Evaluation of the biology of vertebrates that are in conflict with human activities; discussion of control strategies and economic and social impacts.
Physiological, molecular, and behavioral interactions between parasites of human importance and their insect vectors. Emphasis is placed on current literature relating to modern approaches in reducing parasite transmission.
The proposed course will detail the physiochemical factors that influence contaminant behavior in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Prerequisite: BISC 101, 312, CHEM 102, and 103.  Recommended: BISC 414.
This course examines the biodynamics and actions of toxicants on several key biological systems within living organisms at the biochemical and molecular levels. Prerequisite: BISC 313.
Selected topics in biological science. The content of this course varies from term to term.
Addresses the complexities of a community of host species infected by a single pathogen and multiple-host-multiple-parasite systems and sequential hosts acting on different trophic levels. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program, or permission of the instructor.
No description available
No description available
A consideration of advanced special topics in the field of behavioral ecology.
A student participation seminar course focusing on recent literature on selected topics in cellular, developmental, and molecular biology. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor
Special topics course with emphasis on recent developments in environmental toxicology.
A course that provides graduate students with an in-depth analysis of a topic in pest ecology and management. The course content will change from year to year to reflect student interests and topical research, and can be taught by any faculty member of the Department of Biological Sciences.
Special topics in comparative vertebrate and invertebrate functional mechanisms and adaptations. Prerequisite: undergraduate course in animal physiology.
Special topics course emphasizing recent developments in the area of aquatic and marine biology.
Advanced treatment of selected topics or specialized areas in plant biology. The special topics to be discussed will vary from term to term.
Programs of directed readings and critical discussions offered by staff members to individual students. A formal description of the study program is required (forms available from the graduate secretary). These forms must be approved by the departmental graduate studies committee at the beginning of the term, prior to enrolment.
Intended to cover the same ground as a normal graduate course, it may be given to one or two students when a lecture/seminar is inappropriate.
Programs of directed readings and critical discussions offered by staff members to individual students. A formal description of the study program is required (forms available from the graduate secretary). These forms must be approved by the departmental graduate studies committee at the beginning of the term, prior to enrolment.
No description available
No description available
Back on Track Student Success Program
Back on Track Student Success Program
Back on Track Student Success Program
Back on Track Student Success Program
Back on Track Student Success Program
Back on Track Student Success
An introduction to business statistics with a heavy emphasis on applications and the use of EXCEL. Students will be required to use statistical applications to solve business problems. Prerequisite: MATH 157 and 15 units. MATH 157 may be taken concurrently with BUEC 232. STAT 270, Introduction to Probability and Statistics, will be accepted in lieu of BUEC 232. Students with credit for STAT 270 may not take BUEC 232 for further credit. Quantitative.
Basic analysis of the labor market and the industrial relations system with emphasis on the major issues of public policy in Canada. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and 105 or 205. Students who have taken ECON 301, 305 or 381 may not take BUEC 280 for further credit. Quantitative.
An introduction to the use and interpretation of statistical analysis in the context of data typical of economic applications. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200; ECON 105 or 205; BUEC 232 or STAT 270; MATH 157; 60 units. Students with a minimum grade of A- in BUEC 232 or STAT 270 can take BUEC 333 after 30 units. Students seeking permission to enrol based on their BUEC 232 or STAT 270 grade must contact the Undergraduate Advisor in Economics. Students with credit for ECON/COMM 236 may not take BUEC 333 for further credit. Quantitative.
An in depth examination of the application of economic reasoning to the law. The course considers how legal relationships influence behavior and how economic models can explain the structure of the law. A selected number of topics will be covered, and may include the economic approach to common law; property rights; contracts; torts; criminal behavior; family law; and corporate bankruptcy law. Prerequisite: ECON 301. Students with credit for BUEC 495 cannot take this course for further credit. Writing.
Modern techniques of statistical, econometric, population and technological forecasting are presented along with discussions of a wide range of topics including Box-Jenkins methods, leading indicators, survey data, world models and the use of information sets of increasing size. Applied work on the Canadian and BC economies. Prerequisite: BUEC 333; 60 units.
The management and operation of business, including the principles, concepts, ideas and tools used by managers. Management in the contemporary world of high technology is emphasized, featuring examples and cases involving high-tech firms. In addition, the course exposes students to international and local business issues, and to large companies as well as to smaller, entrepreneurial firms. Students with credit for TECH 128, 129 and 130 or for BUS 130  may not take this course for further credit. Business students with greater than 45 units will not receive credit for BUS 201.
Emphasis is upon the relevance of economic models to business decision-making and, in particular, upon the rational analysis of choice alternatives within the firm. Course will include consideration of optimizing techniques and analysis of risk, demand, production and profit in addition to examination of long-term investment decisions and business forecasting. Prerequisite: ECON 103, 105; MATH 157; 15 units. Students with credit for ECON 301 or BUS 307 may not take BUS 207 for further credit. Quantitative.
This is the first term of work experience for students in the Co-operative Education Program. It provides an opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op program co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree.
Introduces students to the knowledge and skills necessary to make full use of business information systems. Demonstrates how information systems are used by organizations to improve productivity and create competitive advantage. Provides hands on training in productivity tools including Excel, Visio, Access and Web design tools. Prerequisite: 12 units. Students may not receive credit for both BUS 237 and 337.
This course is designed to introduce students to the concepts and techniques of corporate financial analysis. The goal is to provide them with the skills and understanding necessary to apply financial tools in a work-related context. Three primary financial functions are considered: management of working capital, the investment decision, and funds acquisition. The course also covers issues from financial accounting related to the development of financial statements and financial statement analysis. Prerequisite: MATH 110. Special Instructions: this course is only open for credit to students in the integrated studies program within the bachelor of general studies degree.
An introduction to financial accounting, including accounting terminology, understanding financial statements, analysis of a business entity using financial statements. Includes also time value of money and a critical review of the conventional accounting system. Prerequisite: 12 units. Quantitative.
Theory and methods of cost compilation for managerial planning, control and decision making; the use of budgets and analysis in planning and controlling operations, establishing supervisory and departmental responsibility, and various techniques of measuring results. Prerequisite: BUS 251; 15 units. Students with credit for BUS 324 or 328 may not take BUS 254 for further credit. Quantitative.
Theories, concepts and issues in the field of organizational behavior with an emphasis on individual and team processes. Core topics include employee motivation and performance, stress management, communication, work perceptions and attitudes, decision-making, team dynamics, employee involvement and conflict management. Prerequisite: 12 units.
This course examines and reviews contemporary thinking on the changing role of business and business persons in the operations of society, particularly Canadian society. The course explores the changing legal, ethical and regulatory environments of business focusing on the critical alignments -- values, policies, technology and legal approaches -- between the modern organization and its broader public. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Role and function of financial managers, financial analysis, compound interest valuation and capital budgeting, management of current assets, introduction to financial instruments and institutions. Prerequisite: BUS 254 (or 324); 60 units. Recommended: BUS 207 or ECON 301. Quantitative.
Start-up and early-stage ventures have particular financial challenges associated with the uncertain and unproven nature of the project. This course analyzes how entrepreneurs and their financial backers can spot, create and manage value. Topics covered include opportunity recognition, cash flow forecasting, valuation methodologies, financial contracts, and careful negotiations. Various sources are considered for start-up capital (private debt, angel financiers, venture capitalists, development banks), and different strategies are considered for harvesting or exiting (initial public offerings, merger, acquisition, leveraged buy-out, shut down) a venture. Prerequisite: BUS 312, 60 units.
Investments from an individual and institutional point of view. Topics include: bond valuation and the term structure of interest rates, stock valuation, portfolio theory, asset pricing models, efficient markets and portfolio performance evaluation. Prerequisite: BUS 312, 336 and 207 or ECON 301; 60 units. Quantitative.
The role derivative securities, mainly options and futures contracts, in controlling risk and enhancing profit opportunities. Valuation of derivative securities. The organization of options and futures markets and the mechanics of trading. Prerequisite: BUS 312, 336; 60 units. Students with credit for BUS 416 may not take BUS 316 for further credit. Quantitative.
In-depth coverage of the accounting methods, problems and limitations associated with assets. Alternative valuation bases will be emphasized and illustrated together with the impact on income. Integration of theory and practice in relation to the treatment of assets. Prerequisite: BUS 254; 60 units. Quantitative.
In-depth coverage of accounting, methods, problems, and limitations, associated with liabilities and owners' equity. An introduction to the unique aspects and issues of accounting for not-for-profit organizations will also be provided. Prerequisite: BUS 320; 60 units. Quantitative.
In-depth examination of important managerial accounting topics introduced in BUS 254 (e.g., transfer pricing, variance analysis) and more advanced topics (e.g., decision making under uncertainty, the value of information), focusing on providing the tools and techniques needed for the generation, analysis and dissemination of management accounting information necessary for making strategic business decisions. The course will also introduce and develop the case approach in order to prepare students for BUS 424. Prerequisite: BUS 254, 60 units.
This is the term semester of work experience for students in the Co-operative Education Program. It provides an opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op program co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree.
This is the third term of work experience for students in the Co-operative Education Program. It provides an opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op program co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree.
This is the fourth term of work experience for students in the Co-operative Education Program. It provides an opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op program co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree.
An examination of the underlying principles, concepts and methodology of income taxation in Canada, with emphasis upon the use of current reference sources. The course focus will be upon business taxation. Prerequisite: 60 units. Corequisite: BUS 320 or permission of Faculty.
This course is an extension of BUEC 232. It develops and applies the quantitative models that are most directly relevant to business decisions. Beginning with material on multiple regression and forecasting modeling, the course moves on to decision analysis, business simulation, quality control, and an introduction to optimization. Prerequisite: MATH 157 and BUEC 232, 60 units. Quantitative.
An introduction to the theory and practice of the management of technological innovation. The external environment for technological innovation is examined through investigation of national and regional systems of innovation. The internal firm capabilities for creating and sustaining innovative firms are explored in detail, from the creation of ideas through to the commercialization of new products and services. Proficiency is gained in identifying sources of innovative value, implementing processes to capture it, and creating strategies for commercialization. Prerequisite: 60 units.
This course is intended to be a first course in marketing management. Its purpose is to present students with the fundamentals of the marketing management process and of the importance of marketing in general. You will also develop some insight into the complex area of marketing decision-making and what marketing managers need to know to be effective. By applying fundamental marketing concepts, students will be able to solve real life marketing problems. Particular emphasis will be placed on understanding consumer behavior and segmentation analysis, the management of promotion, product-related decision-making and market distribution. Uncontrollable environmental elements pertinent to marketing planning will also be discussed. Prerequisite: 60 units. This course is only open for credit to students in the Integrated Studies Program within the bachelor of general studies degree.
Provides an overview of entrepreneurship, where opportunities come from, and where they may be found. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students with credit for BUS 395 Special Topics (Intro to Entrepreneurship) may not take this course for further credit.
The environment of marketing; relation of social sciences to marketing; evaluation of marketing theory and research; assessment of demand, consumer behavior analysis; market institutions; method and mechanics of distribution in domestic, foreign and overseas markets; sales organization; advertising; new product development, publicity and promotion; marketing programs. Prerequisite: 60 units.
A course in the management of marketing research. The basics of the design, conduct, and analysis of marketing research studies. Prerequisite: BUS 343, 336; 60 units; students with credit for BUS 442 may not complete BUS 345 for further credit.
Study of international environment and its impact on business behavior: cultural, social, economic and institutional factors; major functions of international business; export and import trade, foreign investment, production and marketing operations; theoretical principles, government policies, business practices. Prerequisite: 60 units.
A study of the manner in which decisions are made in the market place, by both the ultimate consumer and the industrial buyer. Course will include consideration of consumer decision processes, individual and group influences and special cases such as brand loyalty and consumerism. Prerequisite: BUS 343; 60 units.
This course is designed to assist students to improve their written and oral communication skills in business settings. The theory and practice of business communication will be presented. Topics include analysis of communication problems, message character, message monitoring, message media. Exercises in individual and group messages and presentations will be conducted. Prerequisite: 60 units. Writing.
Introduction to the hard and soft skills of project management. Management software and techniques such as work breakdown, estimation, budgeting and status reporting are used. Applies structured processes and develops team-based skills and knowledge. Assumes no prior computing or technical knowledge. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Prepares students to model, analyze and propose improvements to business processes. In the major project, students analyze a process within an organization and use current techniques and tools to propose changes and a supporting information system. Prerequisite: BUS 237; 60 units.
This course will examine theories of organization which use the organization as a basic unit of analysis. It will show how the structure and internal processes of an organization are linked to and partially determined by forces in the external environment of the organization. Contextual factors such as the technology and corporate strategy of the organization will also be examined. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 272 (or 372).
Subjects include human resource planning, job analysis and design, recruitment, employment equity, selection and placement, performance appraisal, compensation and benefits, training and development, occupational health and safety, and industrial relations. For each subject an overview of current Canadian issues and practices is presented. Prerequisite: BUS 272 (or 372); 60 units.
Common law, equity, and statute law; contracts, agency, and negotiable instruments; partnership and corporation law; international commercial law. Prerequisite: 60 units. BUEC 391 is not to be taken concurrently with BUS 393.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interest of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interest of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
Focuses on and integrates many of the ethics-related topics touched upon in core business courses. Emphasis may vary and may include discussions of market failures, codes of ethics, privacy/confidentiality issues, cross-cultural business norms, social and environmental issues, organizational cultures and best practices in corporate governance. Prerequisite: 90 units, BUS 360.
An examination of financial institutions and the markets in which they operate. Topics may include: institutional structure, financial contract forms, valuation and pricing relationships, financial intermediation, financial transacting, the regulatory environment, risk measurement and hedging strategies. Prerequisite: BUS 315, 316, 360; 60 units.
Corporate decisions in the context of financial markets. Topics include: real asset investments, financing alternatives, dividend policy, working capital management, and corporate securities valuation. Prerequisite: BUS 315, 316, 360; 60 units.
This course covers the historical, theoretical and practical issues involved in the market valuation of securities. Three general areas are studied: valuation of fixed income securities; valuation of equity securities; and topics in portfolio management. Prerequisite: BUS 315, 316, 360; 60 units. Students who have taken BUS 492 under the topic Security Analysis may not take BUS 417 for further credit.
An introduction to international financial markets and institutions and to the management of assets and liabilities in an international/multinational setting. Topics to be covered include: exchange rate determination and management of foreign exchange risk; interest rate swaps; international portfolio management; comparative markets; and country risk. Prerequisites: BUS 315, 316, 360; 60 units.
This is a second course in derivative securities. Topics may include: extensions of the Black-Scholes model, pricing of American options, interest rate derivatives, complex derivatives and real options. Prerequisite: BUS 315, 316, 360; 60 units. Students who have taken BUS 493 under the topic Advanced Derivative Securities may not take BUS 419 for further credit.
In-depth coverage of advanced accounting topics, specifically issues relating to business combinations and foreign currency. Consideration is also given to the interpretation and analysis of financial statements. Prerequisites: BUS 321, 360; 60 units.
Consideration of methods by which accounting theory is developed and examination of specific models including historical costs, replacement costs, resale price and price level adjustment models. Prerequisites: BUS 321, 360, BUS 207 or ECON 301; 60 units.
Process costing; joint and by-product costing; inventory planning and control; cost accounting and statistical methods, relationship to operations research. Prerequisites: BUS 322 or 319, 336, 360; 60 units.
This is the fifth term of work experience for students in the Co-operative Education Program. It provides an opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op program co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree.
A study of the conceptual foundations and the nature and purpose of the external audit function. The course will also discuss some of the more recent developments in auditing such as comprehensive auditing, computer auditing, and the use of statistical methodology in auditing. Prerequisite: BUS 321, 360 and 60 units.
Financial statement analysis using financial information as part of the decision making process. The focus will be on the use of financial information to assess and value equity securities. Prerequisite: BUS 321, 312, 360; 60 units.
This course examines the major similarities and differences in management systems and practices in a variety of countries, including western Europe, East Asia, Middle East, and Latin America. Topics include the following: comparative management frameworks, managing cultural differences, cross-cultural business negotiations, and international human resource management. Prerequisite: BUS 272; 60 units. Students with credit for BUS 380 may not take BUS 430 for further credit. Recommended: BUS 346
This course examines the opportunities and challenges of doing business with the Pacific Rim countries such as China, Japan and Korea. Topics include the following: the political and economic systems as they affect foreign investment; social and cultural systems as they affect management practices; the conduct of business negotiations for market entry; and marketing strategies. Prerequisite: BUS 346, 360, and one of BUS 430 or 432; 60 units.
Significance of multinational complexity and diversity (cultural, economic, demographic, etc.) to the human resource function. Interplay among human resource functions (employee procurement, allocation, utilization), types of employees, and countries of operation. Prerequisite: BUS 360 and one of BUS 381 or 374; 60 units. Recommended: BUS 346.
Examines various topics related to a firm's entry into international markets and the means of sustaining a formidable presence vis-a-vis competitors in foreign markets. Begins with an overview of the historical evolution of the globalization process, the internationalization process of individual firms, challenges that internationalizing firms face in terms of differences in culture and political risk among various host markets entered, and models of multinational companies, and then builds on this background in providing an overview and in-depth coverage of important entry modes such as licensing/franchising, JVs/alliances, acquisitions/mergers with specific focus on managing these modes of entry in an international setting. Prerequisite: BUS 346 and 360; 60 units. Students who have taken BUS 492 (Topic: Foreign Market Entry) may not take this course for further credit.
Strategic requirements for the management of multinational corporations. Firm-specific and institutional challenges facing global managers in formulating and implementing profitable strategies. Prerequisite: BUS 346, 360 and one of BUS 430 or 432; 60 units.
A seminar in the use of Bayesian techniques in business decisions. Prerequisite: BUS 336, 360; 60 units.
Development and use of simulation models as an aid in making complex management decisions. Hands on use of business related tools for computer simulation. Issues related to design and validation of simulation models, the assessment of input data, and the interpretation and use of simulation output. Prerequisite: BUS 336, 360; 60 units.
Understand how to develop and launch new products that will be successful with customers. Students will learn to: identify product/service opportunities; generate and evaluate concepts; develop concepts into products; launch new products. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 360, 343.
This course deals with the marketing of products and services to industrial and other non-consumer sector buyers. The student will be expected to apply previously acquired marketing skills to purchasing situations which arise between organizations. Due to the nature of manufacturing activity in this province, industrial marketing will be approached from a resource industry based standpoint where discussions permit. Prerequisite: BUS 343, 360; 60 units; students with credit for BUS 344 may not complete BUS 444 for further credit.
Exposes students to the art of using analytic tools from across the spectrum of data mining and modeling to provide powerful competitive advantage in business. Students will learn to recognize when a method should or should not be used, what data is required, and how to use the software tools. Areas covered include database marketing, geospatial marketing and fundamental strategic and tactical decisions such as segmentation, targeting and allocating resources to the marketing mix. Prerequisite: BUS 343, 336, 360; 60 units.
Marketing strategy focuses on the analysis of market problems and opportunities and the development of appropriate strategies. Topics include: analytical techniques, strategic planning methods and managerial problems of planning. Case analysis and problem solving will be the major orientation of the course. Prerequisite: BUS 312, 347, 360; 60 units.
The marketing of goods and services in an international context, with emphasis on Pacific Rim countries. Theoretical concepts, environmental influences. Researching and forecasting international markets. The management of international marketing. Prerequisite: BUS 343, 360; 60 units. Recommended: BUS 346.
An integrative approach to the study of promotion including advertising publicity, personal selling and sales promotion; evaluation of the role promotion has in marketing and the economy; formulation and analysis of promotional goals, planning, organizing and controlling; utilization of market research studies; forecasting, budgeting, media selection; promotion institutions. Prerequisite: BUS 347, 360; 60 units.
A critical examination of topics such as consumerism, marketing ethics, and social responsibility, efficiency of marketing or ecological marketing. The particular emphasis may vary depending on the interests of the class and instructor. Prerequisite: BUS 343, 360; 60 units.
Develops abilities to monitor social, cultural, commercial, political and technical developments to forecast and assess emerging technologies. Forecasting methods including expert opinion, trend analysis and scenario construction will be discussed. Selected emerging technologies will be examined through invited speakers and videos. Prerequisite: 60 units, BUS 338, 360.
Addresses a key international marketing issue facing a Norwegian or other European firm with interests in or expansion plans for North America. These firms will be identified by our partner institution, BI Norwegian School of Management, in consultation with prospective students. Prerequisite: 80 units; four 400-level marketing courses. This course is available only to students from the BI Norwegian School of Management who are on an exchange at SFU under the special program agreement.
Through readings, cases and lectures, students learn to develop and implement strategy within the context of high technology businesses and other organizations in which innovation and commercialization of intangible assets is of profound importance. Well suited for students interested in working as consultants or analysts. Prerequisite: 60 units, BUS 338, 360. Students with credit for BUS 492 when offered as Strategic Management of Innovation may not complete this course for further credit.
Challenges associated with continuing innovation are examined and students work to generate innovative solutions by challenging existing economic models. Students learn about sustainable opportunity, recognition, and screening, and understand how great ideas to 'save the plant' can get off the ground. Prerequisite: 60 units, BUS 360. Students with credit for BUS 494 when offered as Sustainable Innovation may not complete this course for further credit.
One of a cohort of three courses presented at the Segal Graduate School of Business for senior students enrolled in the undergraduate program in Business Administration. This course is part of a 12 unit seminar program fulfilling the requirements of the honors portion of the degree requirements. Each full-time one term program emphasizes current issues in business and society, industry interaction, and dialogue and discussion as conduits for student centred learning. Prerequisite: 105 units, 3.5 CGPA, or permission of the faculty. Corequisite: BUS 457, 458.
One of a cohort of three courses presented at the Segal Graduate School of Business for senior students enrolled in the undergraduate program in Business Administration. This course is part of a 12 unit seminar program fulfilling the requirements of the honors portion of the degree requirements. Each full-time one term program emphasizes current issues in business and society, industry interaction, and dialogue and discussion as conduits for student centred learning. Prerequisite: 105 units, 3.5 CGPA, or permission of the faculty. Corequisite: BUS 456, 458.
One of a cohort of three courses presented at the Segal Graduate School of Business for senior students enrolled in the undergraduate program in Business Administration. This course is part of a 12 unit seminar program fulfilling the requirements of the honors portion of the degree requirements. Each full-time one term program emphasizes current issues in business and society, industry interaction, and dialogue and discussion as conduits for student centred learning. Prerequisite: 105 units, 3.5 CGPA, or permission of the faculty. Corequisite: BUS 456, 457.
Increases students' sensitivity to the marketing concepts previously studied as applied to service industries, and familiarizes students with the management problems of service marketing managers. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 343, 347 and 360. Students who have taken BUS 490-495 under the same topic may not take this course for further credit.
Utilizes technology to support analysis and decision making abilities by identifying, analyzing and effectively reporting important business information. Concepts of data warehousing, data mining and visualizing data are introduced. A variety of software applications are used to demonstrate tools and techniques that support analysis and decision making for managers. Prerequisite: BUS 336, 360; 60 units. Corequisite: BUS 336 can be taken concurrently.
Focuses on the use of integrated database management systems in organizations and their application to IS audit and security. Students analyze data models and create business reports based on SQL. SQL queries are designed for audit and information security purposes. The CoBIT framework is used to understand foundations of IS audit. Prerequisite: BUS 360, 362 (or CMPT 370), 60 units.
Explores strategic issues and technologies in contemporary web-based business, from the evolution of business applications on the Internet through to contemporary Open Source and Web 2.0 applications. In depth exploration of new technology and business applications related to these technologies. Prerequisite: BUS 237, 360; 60 units.
The course uses critical theory to look beyond the normative and prescriptive industrial view of information systems as purely effective and efficiency seeking and engages the often latent and complex hegemonic interactions between technology and society. Prerequisite:    BUS 360; 60 units.  Students who have taken BUS 458 may not take this course for further credit
Focuses both on current issues (e.g. build/buy, outsourcing, alignment) and emerging issues (e.g. social networking, utility computing, knowledge management and privacy) in obtaining value from information technology. Prerequisite: BUS 237, 360; 90 units. Recommended: BUS 362.
Advanced topics in organizational behavior. Specific emphasis may vary depending on special interest of faculty. However, general content will extend basic theories and problem descriptions covered in BUS 272 and 374 and will include advanced organizational theory and special topics in personnel. Prerequisite: BUS 272 (or 372) or 374; 360; 60 units.
The management of operating systems including allocation and scheduling of resources; control of costs, inventories, quality, and manpower; design of operating systems including location, layout and manpower; establishment of work methods and standards. Prerequisite: BUS 336, 360; 60 units.
Exploration of the entire network of companies that work to design, produce, distribute, service and recycle their goods and services to customers. Efficient flow of information, material and finances along the entire chain allows firms to collaborate in a manner that benefits both corporations and customers. Analysis of the broader supply chain enables improvements in procurement, customer response time, risk sharing, on-time delivery, inventory levels, and transportation and global logistics. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 360 and 336. Students who have taken BUS 490-495 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Emphasis will vary but may include in any given term consideration of small business in the Canadian economy, career comparisons in small and large businesses, evaluation of new ventures, organization, capitalization, planning, marketing and financial management. Prerequisite: BUS 312, 343, 360; 90 units.
Integration of the various areas of business for the purpose of analysing and recommending strategies for planning and decision-making within the firm and a defined environment. Prerequisite: BUS 207 (or ECON 301), 312, 343, 360W and either BUS 374 or 381; 90 units.
Overall, the course will be a combination of theory, discussion, instructor demonstration, skill practice in large and small groups and small group practice of the four-stage negotiation/conflict resolution model/process. The students in this course will learn about and be able to discuss interest-based negotiation and conflict resolution theory, strategize and plan for various negotiations and conflict situations and be able to put into practice a practical, efficient and productive process for negotiating agreements and resolving conflict. Prerequisite: BUS 360; 60 units. This course is only open for credit to students in the Integrated Studies Program within the bachelor of general studies degree.
Design and administration of recruiting and selections mechanisms. Analysis of procedures and skills that are used to translate strategic objectives into staffing decisions. How these mechanisms are affected by internal and external factors such as person-organization fit, labor markets, government legislation and technology. Prerequisite: BUS 381 and 360; 60 units.
The design and implementation of performance management systems. How these systems articulate organizational mission, strategy and goals, provide organizational and individual standards, and integrate systems and procedures within the context of organizational culture and practices. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 272, 381 and 360.
Examination of the day-to-day administration of various employment systems in both unionized and non-unionized settings. Employment systems have implications for how conflicts between employee and employer interests are resolved, for the attainment of due process in the workplace, and for the flexibility and efficiency of work organization. Characteristics and outcomes of various employment systems will be examined. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 381 and 360.
Negotiation is the art and science of securing agreements between two or more parties that are interdependent and who are seeking to maximize their outcomes. The purpose of this course is to understand the theory and processes of negotiation as it is practiced in a variety of settings. The course will allow participants the opportunity to develop these skills experientially and to understand negotiation in useful analytical frameworks. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 272, 360, and either 374 or 381. Students with credit for BUEC 485 may not take BUS 485 for further credit.
Addresses theoretical foundation and research associated with leadership, including a critical assessment of what leaders do. Issues such as gender and leadership, leadership ethics, and culture and leadership will be examined. Prerequisite: 60 units; BUS 272, 360, and either 374 or 381. Students who have taken BUS 490-495 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Theories and methods of planned change in organizations with an emphasis on the psychological, cultural and structural issues of implementing change. Prerequisite: BUS 360, 60 units, BUS 374 or 381.
Interpersonal and group behavior in organizational contexts, including group development, team building, interpersonal communications, interpersonal conflict, group problem-solving and decision-making. Prerequisite: BUS 360, 60 units, BUS 374 or 381.
Businesses are realigning and in some cases, reinventing their organizations toward more sustainable business models. Management systems and initiatives will be examined that enable organizations to reduce their firms' negative environmental and social impacts while, in many cases, increasing profits and competitive advantage. Prerequisite:    BUS 360 and 374; 60 units.  Students who have taken BUS 457 cannot take this course for further credit
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interest of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units. This course is only open for credit to students in the Integrated Studies Program within the Bachelor of General Studies degree completion program.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interest of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units. This course is only open for credit to students in the Integrated Studies Program within the Bachelor of General Studies degree completion program.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: as stated by the faculty at the time of offering; 60 units.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: permission of the faculty; 60 units.
An intensive and independent reading and research course on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor, and approved by the dean of the faculty. Prerequisite: permission of the faculty; 60 units.
The course combines economic theory and quantitative methods techniques to develop models and rules for managing resources efficiently. Prerequisite: introductory statistics/computing/mathematics, or permission of the instructor.
An overview of the investment and financing decisions of firms. Topics to be covered include valuation, the capital expenditure decision, financial markets, and financial and dividend policy. Prerequisite: BUS 507 and 528 or permission of the instructor.
Concepts, principles and contemporary issues in financial accounting from the user perspective. Prerequisite: introductory statistics, computing, calculus or permission of the instructor.
Concepts and principles of managerial accounting focussing on the use of accounting information by internal decision makers. Prerequisite: BUS 527 or equivalent course.
The objective of this course is to supply prospective managers with the skills necessary to make effective use of formal quantitative analyses, whether those analyses are performed by themselves or by a technical specialist. The course is intended for students with diffuse interests and diverse backgrounds who nevertheless have a common objective of enhancing their abilities to confront complex management decisions in a practical fashion. Prerequisite: introductory statistics/computing/mathematics, or permission of the instructor.
The marketing of products and related services to business and other non-consumer sector buyers. Prerequisite: introductory statistics/computing/mathematics, or permission of the instructor.
Concepts and principles in financial accounting from the user perspective.
The use of accounting information for managerial decisions. Prerequisite: BUS 550 or equivalent.
Applications of economic theory to business problems.
The use of quantitative or statistical techniques in managerial decision making.
The design and implementation of information systems to provide appropriate and timely information to management.
An overview of investment and financing decisions of the firm, including valuation, capital expenditures, financial markets, dividend and financial policy. Prerequisite: BUS 550 and 553 or equivalent.
An introduction to the application of pricing, promotion, channel selection and product planning to marketing decisions.
Issues in the behavior of people in organizations, and human resource management practices that influence employee behavior.
No description available
No description available
Prerequisite: requires prior permission of the academic director.
No description available
No description available
This course introduces students to theories of organizational behavior and organization theory. The student will be expected to develop an understanding of issues in the management of people and work and the design and functioning of organizations. The course will cover concepts of motivation, leadership, decision-making, power and politics, structure, environments and organizational effectiveness. The course will also introduce students to the major professional fields in organizational behavior, industrial relations, personnel, and organizational development. Prerequisite: introductory statistics/computing/mathematics, or permission of the instructor.
This course explores the application of quantitative methods to managerial decision-making. Topics will include data analysis and statistical description, sampling and statistical inference, and regression analysis. Case studies are used to help managers cope with decision-making in complex and uncertain circumstances.
Will examine the international context of business including global trends in international trade, analyses of emerging markets, strategic alliances, and the human, cultural and ethical issues arising from doing business abroad.
This course applies contemporary organizational theory to the managerial challenges of entrepreneurial, corporate, public sector and not-for-profit organizations in the areas of organizational structure and change, adapting the organizations to their changing environment, and articulating alternate plans for organizational survival (and where possible, growth).
An examination of the concepts, principles and assumptions of organization development.
Provides a solid grounding in the principles of business finance. Students are introduced to important financial tools and gain an appreciation of how business decisions impact financial performance and shareholder value.
Analysis of strategic issues affecting the success of the total enterprise and its sub-units. The course includes industry analysis, internal analysis of the core competencies and value chains that enable corporate and business level strategies, the evolution of strategy and how that occurs in different environments and organizational types, and implementation issues organizations face when enacting strategies.
Individual study with a faculty member. The course outline must be approved by the graduate program committee.
Individual study with a faculty member. The course outline must be approved by the graduate program committee.
Individual study with a faculty member. The course outline must be approved by the graduate program committee.
An analysis of the strategic consideration of marketing management and their impact on the firm and its competitors.
A seminar format will be used to discuss the concepts and frameworks essential to the effective management of information technology. Our focus will be on the strategic role that information systems play in organizations, their structure and components, and various perspectives on how to plan and manage this technology.
Focuses on the processes by which goods and services are produced and the impact of operations on corporate strategy and elements in the value chain.
The application of modern microeconomic theory to problems of managerial decision-making. The importance of both economic models and quantitative applications are explained. Topics include demand, cost and productivity analysis; the analysis of market structure and firm strategy, international competition and trade; organizational economics; and the analysis of risk, uncertainty and information.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines and bibliographies must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines and bibliographies must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Negotiation is the art and science of securing agreements between two or more parties that are interdependent and who are seeking to maximize their outcomes. The central issues of this course deal with understanding behavior of individuals, groups and organizations in the context of competitive situations.
Course content varies from term to term. specific course outlines and bibliographies must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
The development and analysis of financial statements and their role in financial and strategic decisions.   Students with credit for MBA 670 may not complete this course for further credit
Leadership theory, interpersonal relations and group dynamics in organizational life, and the development of perceptual and communication skills in small groups.
Collective bargaining, the collective agreement, work stoppages, arbitration and the legal environments.
Course content varies from term to term. Specific course outlines and bibliographies must receive prior approval of the graduate program committee.
Examines the rationale for and nature of government intervention, and the impact of public policies on business.
Students will undertake a strategic firm analysis or public policy analysis (public sector students).  Students may undertake other types of projects with permission of the executive MBA director. The project is submitted to the library.  Prerequisite: BUS 607, 691.
Individual study with a faculty member.  The course outline must be approved by the graduate program committee.
Strategic managment requires a dynamically oriented analysis of markets, industries and the companies within those industries. The goal of strategic management is to proactively develop strategies to create and sustain competitive advantage. Participants will gain an understanding of what strategy is, how it is constrained, formulated, developed and implemented.
An introduction to the application of pricing, promotion, channel selection and product planning to marketing decisions. The strategic consideration of marketing management and its impact on the firm will be discussed.
Applications of economic theory to business problems. The importance of economic models and quantitative applications will be explained. Topics include demand, cost and productivity analysis; the analysis of market structure and firm strategy; and the analysis of risk, uncertainty and information.
Using laboratory education methods, this course will provide students with personalized feedback and coaching on interpersonal skills. Skills like leadership, coaching, team building, persuading, negotiating and managing conflict will be refined. Students will also be exposed to methods in observing and influencing group processes.
Analysis of financial statements and their role in organizational life. Concepts and principles in financial accounting from a user perspective. The use of accounting information for managerial decisions.
The use of quantitative or statistical techniques in managerial decision-making.
An examination and review of contemporary thinking on the changing role of business and business persons in the operations of society. The course explores the changing legal, ethical, and regulatory environments of business focusing on the critical alignments of values, policies, technology and legal approaches between the modern organization and its broader public.
An overview of investment and financing decisions of the firm, including valuation, capital expenditures, financial markets, dividend and financial policy. Prerequisite: BUS 705.
This course will introduce students to the theories and practices concerning the management and the application of Information Technology (IT) in organizations. Skills in analyzing complex situations in a holistic manner will be reinforced through the use of case methods. Technical aspects of information technology will be discussed.
This course focuses on managerial challenges facing firms that operate (or intend to operate) in emerging markets, and ways in which these challenges can be addressed. Such challenges refer to interfaces between firms and elements in their internal and external environments.
Students will learn about interest-based negotiation and conflict resolution theory, strategize and plan for various negotiations and conflict situations and be able to put into practice a practical, efficient, and productive process for negotiating agreements and resolving conflict.
Exposure to the dilemmas and opportunities that arise within international and multicultural work environments needed in dealing with a global business environment. Strategies for adopting organizational practices that address these issues will be discussed. Emphasis will be placed on the management of people and groups in international organizations. The focus of the course is on the interaction between people in international work settings rather than interactions between specific countries and/or cultures.
Students will undertake an essay that will generally fall into two of the following three categories: 1. an industry analysis; 2. a firm level analysis; 3. a regional analysis. Other topics of analyses will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Prerequisite: 30 units of course work in the MBA program.
The purpose of this course is to teach the basic skills of venturing - how to translate an entrepreneurial vision into action. The course also provides an opportunity for participants to explore their personal situation and assess the desirability of an entrepreneurial career.
Students will examine the processes and methods that enable organizations to achieve better productivity, quality, time and information performance. Design and control aspects of effective operations management as they relate to service and manufacturing entities will also be discussed. The course will explore the management of operating systems, including allocation and scheduling of resources; control of costs, inventories, quality, and manpower; design of operating systems including location, layout and manpower; establishment of work methods and standards.
Students will explore how businesses are realigning or reinventing their organizations toward more sustainable business models. Developments that enable organizations to reduce their firms' negative environmental and social impacts while increasing profits and competitive advantage will be discussed. Students will also learn about management systems and initiatives for improving the environmental and social performance of organizations and the business system as a whole.
No description available
A capstone course in strategy that integrates material learned in the program's more micro-focused courses, this course focuses on the development and implementation of organizational-level strategies. This course satisfies the comprehensive exam requirement. Prerequisite:    30 units of course work in the MBA program.
Two to eight month internship is for the MBA students and takes place in their last semester. Approved entrepreneurial projects will also be accepted. The associate directors of the Business Career Management Centre must be contacted prior to registration for this course. Students must be current graduate students in the MBA program, and must have a CGPA and previous SGPA of at least 3.0.
Students in a PhD program may substitute Research Intership for Internship. A supervised research assistantship of two to eight months involving research-related activities such as the design, collection, review, analysis and reporting of research related data. Prerequisite:    Admission to a PhD program.
This course examines successful product and process innovations in industry, as well as the effective organization and management of the technological change process in new ventures, multi-divisional and multinational enterprises.
The purpose of this course is to introduce students to basic concepts in microeconomics and to explore the relevance of economic reasoning to managerial decision-making, both tactical and strategic. The importance of economic concepts, economic models and quantitative applications will be emphasized and applied to problems regularly encountered by technology managers.
This course deals with how technology-based firms develop and implement strategies to create competitive advantage. The module treats strategy at two levels of analysis: (a) the overall strategy of the firm and (b) the technology strategy of the firm.
This course addresses how to navigate the moral quandaries, issues and debates raised by direct participants and stakeholders in the high-tech economy. Topics include character building practices, moral stages in the high-tech career, corporate social responsibility, the role of reputation capital in the high-tech firm, and the moral and legal obligations of the expert.
What differentiates high-tech markets from more traditional ones is the environment  shrinking product life cycles, rapid changes in information and knowledge and great uncertainty about competitors. This course is designed to teach strategies for developing and executing marketing strategies in technology-intensive markets.
This course will address emerging issues in international business relevant to technology intensive firms. Globalization means that cross-cultural business interactions have become more commonplace.
This course will demonstrate, through cases and discussion, how information can be used to support decision-making, monitor operations and enable global communications. Topics will include knowledge management and information technology to support a learning organization.
The Business Operations Design course integrates organizational theory and operations management theory to provide a working knowledge of the key elements involved in designing and operating organizations. The aim is to introduce students to the best current thinking for creating effective organizational configurations that realize a desired strategy and achieve the accompanying performance.
This course provides flexibility to address emergent topics in Technology Management.
Developing and balancing critical management competencies at the individual, interpersonal, team and organizational levels. Focus is on effective organization, motivation and leadership.
In high technology firms, projects are a way of life. The introduction of a new product or service, the redesign of an information system, and the opening of a new warehouse are all examples of projects that the technology-driven manager may encounter. This course demonstrates how complexity can be managed in a manner that increases the probability of project success. As a course assignment, students develop their own plan for the project/internship phase of the program.
An intensive 3-day simulation where students discover what they would actually do when confronted with the reality of working in a company with multiple interdependencies, financial and geographical constraints and a complex and changing environment. Graded on a Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory basis.
The objective is to teach the foundations of applied finance with respect to the capital raising process and the creation of finance-able business plans. A company 'life cycle' approach to financial development is utilized and topics explored include the entrepreneurial process, angel and venture capital financing, legal entities and capital structure, term sheet negotiations, business valuation techniques, going public, debt financing, mergers and acquisitions, financial contracting.
Concepts and principles in financial accounting from the user perspective and the use of accounting information for managerial decision-making.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Individual study with a faculty member. A course outline must be approved by the graduate program committee.
Students will undertake a strategic business analysis and write an extended essay jointly supervised by a Simon Fraser University faculty member and an industry partner. The Management of Technology program director and a faculty member will negotiate the purpose, content and deliverables of each project with the student and the sponsoring organization.
No description available
An introduction to elements of mathematics and computational techniques employed in finance and financial risk management. An introduction to programming tools, e.g. VBA, Matlab, and an object oriented programming language (e.g. C++).
An introductory course in the theory of finance and investor behavior, financial decision-making under uncertainty as well as capital market equilibrium.
Financial econometrics for testing asset pricing models and portfolio performance measurement.
Will teach students to analyse the competitive prospects for a given industry as well as specific companies within that industry. It will also include analysis of strategic choices in the financial services industry.
A survey of asset pricing models including linear factor models, CAPM, and arbitrage models. Multi-period consumption, portfolio choice, and asset pricing models; continuous-time consumption and portfolio choice; behavioral finance and asset pricing; asset pricing with differential information.
Emphasizes how to become an effective investment counsellor. Topics covered will include leadership styles, client relationship development, interpersonal communication, coaching/counselling strategies and skills, conflict and team management, and performance measurement. Information systems for effective client relationship management will also be covered.
This course is a continuation of the concepts in BUS 806.
Assists students in developing self-awareness and the ability to evaluate their leadership. Covers personal leadership plans, effective leadership practices and reflection-in-action and life-long learning practices.
An introduction to portfolio management, equity valuation, debt valuation, and performance and risk measurement.
The term structure of interest rates, fixed income returns, yield-spread analysis, sources of risk in fixed income securities, and embedded options.
Extends equilibrium asset pricing models to an international context and analyses the implications on equity and fixed income security analysis and portfolio management. Students will be introduced to various international market indices and the role of international securities in investment portfolios. Currency hedging will also be covered.
Provides students with an understanding of the implications of taxes and intergenerational wealth transfer on portfolio management. It will review basic elements of the tax system, tax-efficient investment vehicles and estate planning. Specific examples of the effect of these factors on investors' portfolios will be considered. This course will be taught in the context of Canadian tax law, but will also contain selected coverage of the tax codes of other countries, including the U.S. Mechanisms for implementing investors' charitable concerns will also be considered.
Reviews the regulatory framework for investment managers and analyses the types of ethical considerations that might arise. Specific topics will include the importance of knowing the client, the nature of fiduciary obligations, suitability, standards of care (i.e., the prudent person and produce expert rules) and the identification and proper management of conflicts of interest.
An introductory course in derivative securities that includes pricing as well as the use of derivative securities in portfolio management and structured transactions.
A study of optimum portfolio selections and diversification of financial assets including cash vis-a-vis different classes of utility functions of final wealth. Also, an examination of the behavior of speculative prices and rates of return. Prerequisite: ECON 331. Offered once a year. 
Assumptions underlying the Capital Asset Pricing Model are relaxed to allow for specific views on asset returns, and to allow for the expected future consumption needs of a given investor to be considered at a strategic level.
A study of capital market equilibrium theories, risk allocation, valuation models under perfect and imperfect markets and their empirical testing. Prerequisite: ECON 331, 835. Offered once a year. 
Extensions of advanced topics beyond those covered BUS 802 and 805. Prerequisite: BUS 814 (co-requisite acceptable).
Students will be required to complete a written project equivalent to one full course. A project will generally represent successful research on a topic in asset and wealth management. The project will be supervised by faculty members, but members of the broad investment management community may also participate in the supervisory committee as second readers when appropriate. We hope that topics proposed by members of the Business Council may be suitable from time to time.
No description available
No description available
The valuation of equity securities, including company and industry analysis, financial statement analysis and valuation models.
A review of securities law in Canada, US and the EU. Overview of how, and by whom, financial intermediaries are regulated, Canada: Bank Act, Bank of Canada, OSFI. US: Federal Reserve, SEC, OCC, FDIC, etc.
A course outline must be approved by the Business Graduate Program Committee.
Computational tools for financial analysis, financial engineering and risk management.
Individual study with a faculty member. A course outline must be approved by the Business Graduate Program Committee.
Tools for identifying, measuring, monitoring and mitigating operational risks. Techniques include causal modeling and simulation.
Credit risk management with emphasis on portfolio models, including probability of default and loss given default models, credit capital allocation, active portfolio management, credit derivatives, and structured transactions.
Value at risk, advanced market risk models, statistical models, stress testing, scenario analysis, and risk-adjusted performance measurement.
An assessment of the risk management practices of financial institutions. A survey of best practices with respect to enterprise risk management, including risk architecture and risk communication and disclosure within the organization.
Provides a comprehensive definition of all types of financial instruments and develops a thorough understanding of operational accounting and auditing for a broad range of financial instruments.
Economic principles, concepts, and practice of risk and insurance.
Integrative and topical issues in financial risk management.
A risk management research project, completed within the final academic term, based on ideas generated in previous terms, with in-class sessions on topic development, presentation, and reporting of findings as well as regular meetings with a designated supervisor. Project may be done individually or in pairs.
No description available
This is a course in the PhD program on a selected topic.
This is a course in the PhD program on a selected topic.
This is a course in the PhD program on a selected topic.
This is a course in the PhD program on a selected topic.
The effective use of empiricism, positivism, and interpretive explanations in generating, defending and clarifying logically rigorous arguments is explored. Participants from diverse fields (marketing, international business, management studies, accounting, policy analysis, finance, etc.) within the administrative sciences will look at the processes which have guided theory development and theory testing within  their field of inquiry. Attention will focus on what criteria are used to assess the adequacy of explanations and useful theories. The seminar seeks to advance the participants' interest in putting theory into practice. Prerequisite: Enrolment in PhD program.
Provides an overview of the major quantitative and qualitative analytical methods associated with empirical research in Business Administration. This seminar is aimed at providing an overview of the research process, an introduction to a range of research techniques and data analysis appropriate to those techniques. It should develop participants' skills for designing research as well as an ability to critically assess research reported in the literature. To do this, the course will focus on various approaches to research design, discuss the kinds of analyses appropriate to those designs, and introduce computer packages for data analysis, such as Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS). Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
This seminar is intended to support doctoral students in the early stages of the development of their dissertations. Practical and conceptual issues with respect to the integration of theory, research design, and methodology will be explored. The seminar will provide a forum for students to share their dissertation work in progress, and learn from each other with respect to theoretical, analytical, and methodological problems, successes and trade-offs.  Prerequisite: enrolment in the PhD program or consent of the instructor.
Supervised individual study on a topic of the student's choice, under the guidance of one or more faculty. Arrangements for this course must be approved by the graduate chair in advance of enrolment. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Supervised individual study on a topic of the student's choice, under the guidance of one or more faculty. Arrangements for this course must be approved by the graduate chair in advance of enrolment. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Supervised individual study on a topic of the student's choice, under the guidance of one or more faculty. Arrangements for this course must be approved by the graduate chair in advance of enrolment. Prerequisite: enrolment in the PhD program.
Supervised individual study on a topic of the student's choice, under the guidance of one or more faculty. Arrangements for this course must be approved by the graduate chair in advance of enrolment. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Specialized study in topics germane to the program, but not covered extensively in other core courses. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Specialized study in topics germane to the program, but not covered extensively in other core courses. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Specialized study in topics germane to the program, but not covered extensively in other core courses. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
PhD students will generate a research project in their third term that will be graded by the senior supervisor on a pass/fail basis. The student can rewrite the project once. If the grade is still deficient, they will be asked to withdraw from the program. Those who pass the research project will present it in an open research presentation. Questions and answers emerging in this context should assist the student to develop their research. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Students will be required to pass a comprehensive exam in the sixth term of the program. This will include written examinations in each student's major and methodology minor followed by an oral exam. Graded on a Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory basis. Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program.
General fundamental concepts and nomenclature; stoichiometry and chemical calculations; nuclear and atomic structures, chemical bonding; properties of gases, liquids, solids and solutions; chemical kinetics and chemical equilibrium. This course has the same lecture component as CHEM 111 but no laboratory work. Students who intend to take further laboratory courses in chemistry must take CHEM 111. Prerequisite: BC high school mathematics 12 (or equivalent) or permission of the department. No previous training in chemistry is required for this course. Students with credit for high school chemistry 12 (or equivalent), or any university chemistry course may not take CHEM 110 or 111 for further credit. Students may not count both CHEM 110 and 111 for credit. Corequisite: If BC high school mathematics 12 credit not obtained, then MATH 100 must be taken as a corequisite to CHEM 110. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
General fundamental concepts and nomenclature; stoichiometry and chemical calculations; nuclear and atomic structures, chemical bonding; properties of gases, liquids, solids and solutions; chemical kinetics and chemical equilibrium. This course includes a laboratory component. Prerequisite: BC high school mathematics 12 (or equivalent) or permission of the department. No previous training in chemistry is required for this course. Students with credit for high school chemistry 12 (or equivalent), or any university chemistry course may not take CHEM 110 or 111 for further credit. Students may not count both CHEM 110 and 111 for credit. Corequisite: if BC high school Mathematics 12 credit not obtained, then  MATH 100 must be taken as a corequisite to CHEM 111. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Atomic and molecular structure; chemical bonding; thermochemistry; elements; periodic table; gases, liquids, solids, and solutions. This course has the same lecture component as CHEM 121 but no laboratory work. Students who intend to take further laboratory courses in chemistry must take CHEM 121. Prerequisite: BC high school chemistry 12 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 110. Students may not count both CHEM 120 and 121 for credit.  Recommended: MATH 151 (or 154) and PHYS 120 (or 101) as a corequisite. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Atomic and molecular structure; chemical bonding; thermochemistry; elements; periodic table; gases liquids, solids, and solutions. This course includes a laboratory component. Prerequisite: BC high school chemistry 12 or CHEM 111. Students may not count both CHEM 120 and 121 for credit.  Recommended: MATH 151 (or 154) and PHYS 120 (or 101) as a corequisite. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Chemical equilibria; electrochemistry; chemical thermodynamics; kinetics. Students who intend to take further laboratory courses in chemistry should take CHEM 122 concurrently with CHEM 126. Prerequisite: CHEM 121 or 120. Recommended: MATH 152 (or 155) and PHYS 121 (or 102) as a corequisite. Quantitative.
Experiments in chemical equilibrium, acids and bases, qualitative analysis, electrochemistry and chemical kinetics. Prerequisite: CHEM 121. Corequisite: CHEM 122. Quantitative.
A basic introduction to chemical kinetics, thermodynamics, electrochemistry, and equilibria as they apply to the structure and function of biomolecules. Concepts will be illustrated using modern examples of biological systems. Students will be introduced to central ideas and selected molecular engineering methods in biochemistry and molecular biology. Prerequisite: CHEM 121.
A survey of materials that have been used throughout human history, from stone, bone and wood to modern plastics and superconductors. The chemical principles that give rise to different materials' properties will be examined, with an emphasis of how small changes at the molecular level can have important implications in everyday life. We will also trace the development of new materials and how they have been perceived and studied throughout the ages. Intended for both science and non-science students. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
The impact of chemistry on modern living. Students will gain a broad perspective on chemical processes with historical, environmental and economic importance in shaping society, examining both the beneficial and harmful aspects of the chemicals that shape our lives. Topics may include: perfumes, explosives, drugs, dyes, plastics, pesticides and greenhouse gases. Intended for both science and non-science students. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
An introduction to the concepts of radiation and nuclear science. Emphasis will be placed on applications; by the end of the term students will be able to make well-informed opinions on the role of nuclear science and its use. Intended for both science and non-science students. Breadth-Science.
The principles of analytical chemistry and their practical application to solution samples. Titrimetric and electrochemical methods. Prerequisite: CHEM 122 and 126. Quantitative.
The chemistry of the elements and their inorganic compounds in terms of fundamental concepts of perodicity of properties, valence, ionization potential, electron affinity, electronegativity, stability of oxidation states, bonding, structure and stereochemistry. Co-ordination complexes and organometallic chemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 122. Corequisite: students who expect to take further courses in inorganic chemistry should take the laboratory course CHEM 236 concurrently with 230. Quantitative.
An introduction to the synthetic and spectroscopic techniques used in the preparation and characterization of both main group and transition metal compounds. Prerequisite: CHEM 122 and 126. Corequisite: CHEM 230. Writing/Quantitative.
Elements of physical chemistry from the molecular point of view. Introduction to quantum chemistry, atomic and molecular structure, and spectroscopy. Prerequisite: CHEM 122, MATH 152, PHYS 121. Recommended: MATH 232. Quantitative.
Structure, bonding, physical and chemical properties of simple organic compounds. Introduction to spectroscopy. Kinetics and mechanisms of organic reactions. This course includes a laboratory component. Prerequisite: CHEM 121. Corequisite: CHEM 122. Quantitative.
Polyfunctional organic compounds and complex organic reactions. Introduction to natural products. Prerequisite: CHEM 281. Quantitative.
Laboratory work chosen to complement CHEM 282. Prerequisite: CHEM 281. Corequisite: CHEM 282. Quantitative.
This is the first term of work experience in a co-operative program available to students planning to pursue a career in chemistry or related areas. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: completion of 28 units in a science program, including first-year calculus, chemistry and physics. Minimum CGPA 2.67 (or permission of co-op co-ordinator).
This is the second term of work experience in the Chemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CHEM 306 and completion of 42 units toward a BSc degree. Minimum CGPA 2.67 (or permission of co-op co-ordinator).
Principles and applications of basic analytical instrumentation based upon spectroscopy, chromatography and electrochemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 215 and CHEM 260, or permission of the department. Students may not count both CHEM 316 and 416 for credit. Quantitative.
Principles and applications of the methodologies of analytical chemistry employed in the determination of substances in air, water, and soil, with particular emphasis upon sampling and sample preparation. Prerequisite: CHEM 316 and 371. Corequisite: CHEM 372 should be taken concurrently. Quantitative.
The synthesis and characterization of classical and organometallic complexes of the transition metals, and their physical and chemical properties. Prerequisite: CHEM 230, 236 and 260, or permission of the department. Quantitative.
An introduction to the principles governing the formation, properties and investigation of metal-ligand complexes with special reference to the role of metals in biological processes. Prerequisite: MBB 321; or CHEM 282 and CHEM 230. Quantitative.
Laboratory experiments in co-ordination, organometallic and solid state chemistry, involving synthesis, characterization and spectroscopy. Prerequisite: CHEM 236. Corequisite: CHEM 332 must precede or be taken concurrently. Quantitative.
Bonding in solid state materials. Introduction to symmetry and its applications in materials science. Structure and physical properties of solid state materials. Prerequisite: completion of 60 units in a science or applied science program, including first year chemistry, physics and calculus. Quantitative.
Elements of physical chemistry from the macroscopic point of view. Thermodynamics, and its applications to chemical equilibrium. Chemical kinetics and reaction rate theories. Prerequisite: CHEM 122, MATH 152 (or 155), PHYS 121 (or 102). Recommended: MATH 251. Credit will not be granted for both CHEM 360 and MBB 323. Quantitative.
Experiments in thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, electrochemistry, and atomic and molecular structure. Prerequisite: CHEM 260. Corequisite: CHEM 360. Writing/Quantitative.
Continues CHEM 366. Prerequisite: CHEM 366. Quantitative.
An introduction to chemical processes in the aqueous environment. Quantitative treatment of the variables determining the composition of natural systems. Chemistry of aqueous toxic agents, wastewater treatment, and related matters. Prerequisite: CHEM 281 and CHEM 360. Quantitative.
Quantitative treatment of chemical and physical processes in the atmospheric environment. Chemistry of the troposphere including air pollution and climate change. Chemistry of the stratosphere including ozone depletion. Environmental radioactivity. Current topics. Prerequisite: CHEM 281 and CHEM 360. Quantitative.
Basic principles of infrared, ultraviolet, nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectroscopy as applied to the identification of organic compounds. Prerequisite: CHEM 260 and 282 and 286, or permission of the department.
An intermediate level course in modern organic chemistry, including both theoretical design of synthetic routes and practical training in the laboratory. The central topics to be discussed include methods to form carbon-carbon bonds, use of organometallic reagents, asymmetric synthesis, pericyclic reactions, the use of enzymes in organic synthesis, and the automation of synthetic organic chemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 380. Quantitative.
A survey of industrial chemistry. Topics include the production of raw petrochemical and mineral materials, bulk organic and inorganic chemicals that drive the economy, industrially relevant polymers, and health and hygiene products. Green approaches to industrial chemistry are discussed. Prerequisite: CHEM 215, 230, and 282, or permission of the department.
This is the third term of work experience in the Chemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CHEM 307 and completion of 56 units toward a BSc degree. Minimum CGPA of 2.67 (or permission of co-op co-ordinator).
This is the last term of work experience in the Chemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CHEM 406. Minimum CGPA of 2.67 (or permission of co-op co-ordinator).
Optional term of work experience in the Chemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CHEM 407.
Principles and applications of emerging techniques in analytical chemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 316.
The organometallic chemistry of the transition elements; the synthesis, characterization and catalytic behavior of organometallic compounds. Prerequisite: CHEM 332. Quantitative.
An in-depth treatment of a current topic in inorganic chemistry. Contact the department for information regarding the topic to be covered in a given term. Prerequisite: CHEM 332
The study of the detailed chemistry of solid state inorganic materials in terms of crystal structures, bonding, preparative methods, analytical and characterization techniques, mixed valence states, solid solutions, defects and non-stoichiometry, molecular mechanisms of the optical, electronic, ionic, magnetic and dielectric properties, and materials applications in advanced technology. Prerequisite: CHEM 340. Quantitative.
The course covers the detailed chemistry of polymers, including polymer structure, studies of polymer solutions, molecular weight determination, and the synthesis of polymers. In addition, topics of current interest in polymer science will be discussed. Prerequisite: CHEM 282. Quantitative.
Emphasis will be placed on the synthesis and properties of materials that are useful in the design of electrooptical devices, such as light emitting diodes (LEDs) and liquid crystal displays (LCDs). Topics to be discussed will include liquid crystals, conjugated polymers, and the assembly of thin film materials. A case study approach will be employed in order to provide an overview of these areas of research, with examples taken from the primary literature. Prerequisite: CHEM 282. Quantitative.
A study of the structure, stereochemistry and conformation of molecules and their effect on the reactivity of organic molecules. The physical basis of organic chemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 360 and 380. Quantitative.
An advanced treatment of the use of enzymes in organic synthesis, the use of stable and radioisotopes in the study of enzymatic processes and the design of enzyme inhibitors. Prerequisite: CHEM 381 or permission of the department. Quantitative.
This course teaches the principles involved in the planning and execution of the synthesis of organic molecules. Emphasis is on synthesis of naturally occurring compounds of biological importance. Prerequisite: CHEM 381 or permission of the instructor. Quantitative.
An advanced, in-depth treatment of a specialized area of organic chemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 380 or permission of the instructor.
Statistical thermodynamics, kinetic theory of gases, transport properties, intermolecular forces, electrical properties of molecules, properties of ionic solutions, Debye-Hckel theory, electrochemistry. Prerequisite: MATH 251; CHEM 260 and 360, or PHYS 385 and 344. Quantitative.
Atomic spectra. Electronic, vibrational and rotational spectra of diatomic and polyatomic molecules. The Raman effect. Nuclear and electron spin resonance. Symmetry classification of molecules and their energy levels. Prerequisite: CHEM 260 or PHYS 385. Quantitative.
Fundamentals of quantum mechanics and its principal results and techniques as applied to atoms and molecules: atomic structure, molecular bonding, rotations and vibrations of molecules, symmetry of atomic and molecular orbitals. Prerequisite: CHEM 260, MATH 232, 251; or PHYS 385. Recommended: MATH 310. Quantitative.
Modern techniques and concepts in electrochemistry. Topics include equilibrium and dynamic electrochemistry, ion transport and voltammetry. Electrochemical systems of increasing importance including chemically modified electrodes, fuel cells and solar energy conversion applications will also be discussed. Prerequisite: CHEM 360. Quantitative.
Selected topics of physical chemistry not regularly covered in the chemistry undergraduate course offerings. Topics may vary from year to year and may include (but are not limited to): chemical kinetics, electrochemistry, magnetic resonance, polymer chemistry, surface chemistry. Prerequisite: CHEM 260 and 360 or permission of the instructor.
Experimental and/or theoretical research; preparation of a written report and oral presentation in research seminar format. Admission requires selection of a faculty supervisor and submission of a research proposal. Prospective students must contact the chemistry advisor to register their interest in this course before the last day of classes of the previous term. The research proposal is due by the end of the examination period preceding the research term. Prerequisite: permission of the department; knowledge of chemistry at an advanced level. Normally taken after completion of 300 level course requirements.
Directed reading in a topic chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Admission requires selection of a faculty supervisor and submission of a study topic to the department a least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. Prerequisite: permission of the department. Normally taken during the fourth year of study.
Experimental and/or theoretical research; preparation of a written report and oral presentation in research seminar format. Admission requires selection of a faculty supervisor and submission of a research proposal. Prospective students must contact the chemistry advisor to register their interest in this course before the last day of classes of the previous semester. The research proposal is due by the end of the examination period preceding the research term. Prerequisite: CHEM 481 and permission of the department. Credit for this course may only be applied to the honors chemistry program.
The study of the detailed chemistry of solid state inorganic materials in terms of crystal structures, bonding, preparative methods, analytical and characterization techniques, mixed valence states, solid solutions, defects and non-stoichiometry, molecular mechanisms of the optical, electronic, ionic, magnetic and dielectric properties, and materials applications in advanced technology.
The course covers the detailed chemistry of polymers, including polymer structure, studies of polymer solutions, molecular weight determination, and the synthesis of polymers. In addition, topics of current interest in polymer science will be discussed.
This is an advanced level course in modern organic materials chemistry. Emphasis will be placed on the synthesis and properties of materials that are useful in the design of electrooptical devices, such as light emitting diodes (LEDs) and liquid crystal displays (LCDs). Topics to be discussed will include liquid crystals, conjugated polymers, and the assembly of thin film materials. A case study approach will be employed in order to provide an overview of these areas of research, with examples taken from the primary literature.
An advanced treatment of mechanism and structure in organic chemistry and the use of physical methods as probes of structure, stereochemistry and conformation.
An advanced treatment of the use of enzymes in organic synthesis, the use of stable and radio isotopes in the study of enzymatic processes, and the design of enzyme inhibitors.
A detailed treatment of the structure and reactions of monosaccharides, the use of carbohydrates as chiral templates in organic synthesis, advances in glycoside synthesis, the occurrence, chemistry, and conformational analysis of complex carbohydrates and their role in biological systems.
An advanced treatment of strategy in organic synthesis. The principles and use of modern synthetic methodology.
An advanced treatment of specific topics related to the study of organic compounds. Topics which will be discussed will vary from one term to the next.
Discussion of recent literature in chemistry through student seminars.
This course will be taken by all PhD students in their fourth or fifth term in the program. Each student should present a written report on his/her research, make an oral presentation and answer questions at the examination. Students will be evaluated on their written report, oral presentation and response to questions on relevant knowledge. Graded satisfactory/unsatisfactory. Prerequisite: for students in the PhD program.
In-depth coverage of a particular area of analytical chemistry. Example subject areas include separation science, mass spectrometry, optical spectroscopy, electrochemistry, or surface science. Occasionally the subject matter of this course will be a survey of recent advances in the field.
An advanced treatment of the synthesis, structures, reactions and spectroscopic identification of inorganic compounds.
Important developments in main group chemistry in recent years will be examined in the context of the basic chemistry of the elements involved; not every element or group will necessarily be discussed.
An advanced, in-depth treatment of a specialized area of inorganic chemistry.
Theory and practical techniques of the current uses of radioactive isotopes in systems of chemical interest.
Principles, techniques and applications of NMR and ESR.
Non-relativistic quantum mechanics. Atomic and molecular structure, perturbation theory, variation method.
Modern techniques and concepts in electrochemistry. Topics include equilibrium and dynamic electrochemistry, ion transport and voltammetry. Electrochemical systems of increasing importance including chemically modified electrodes, fuel cells and solar energy conversion applications will also be discussed.
A specialized area of physical chemistry will be selected from a list of topics.
First term of work experience for graduate students. Prerequisite: completion of MSc thesis including defence.
Second term of work experience for graduate students. Prerequisite: completion of MSc thesis including defence.
A thesis for the MSc degree may be written on a topic in either chemistry or chemical education. Students electing to write a thesis in chemical education, are required to complete satisfactorily 10 units of course work in the Faculty of Education in addition to the minimum chemistry degree requirements. The 10 units of course work in the Faculty of Education may not be used for credit towards the PhD degree in Chemistry if the student transfers into the PhD program.
No description available
Introduction to the study of Mandarin Chinese and to the development of basic oral and written skills for those with no background in Mandarin. Students with B.C. high school Mandarin 12 will not be admitted to CHIN 100 through CHIN 201. Students with any knowledge of Chinese should see the Language Training Institute advisor for placement.
Continues to build on all four language skills acquired in CHIN 100. Prerequisite: CHIN 100 or equivalent.
Designed for speakers of a Chinese dialect other than Mandarin, e.g., Cantonese. Learners will come to the course with no ability in spoken Mandarin, but some command of Chinese reading and writing. By the end of CHIN 151, students will be able to use spoken Mandarin at a basic level. Prerequisite: no knowledge of spoken Mandarin; placement interview. Students who have taken CHIN 151 (Spoken Mandarin for Speakers of Other Chinese Dialects) may not take this course for further credit.
Designed for speakers of a Chinese dialect other than Mandarin, e.g., Cantonese. Learners will come to the course with novice level proficiency in spoken Mandarin and a good command of Chinese reading and writing. By the end of CHIN 152, students will have improved their pronunciation and aural comprehension of spoken Mandarin and have enhanced their conversational skills. Prerequisite: CHIN 151 or equivalent.
Continues to build on all four skills of the language acquired in CHIN 101/102, with special emphasis on improving the students' spoken facility in the language. Prerequisite: CHIN 100 and 101 or equivalent.
Continues to build on all four skills of the language acquired in CHIN 200, with special emphasis on improving the students' spoken facility. Prerequisite: CHIN 200 or equivalent.
An introduction to selected theories about human communication. This course is required for a major, honors or minor in communication. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to the role of mass communication (radio, television, telecommunications and the press) in Canadian society. This course is required for a major, honors or minor in communication.
An introduction to the role of mass communication (radio, television, telecommunications and the press) in Canadian society. This course is required for a major, honors or minor in communication. Writing.
Introduction to techniques and methods of communicating effectively in complex organizations; with the media, government, the public; in the work place, in local and international business and trade, etc. The challenge of working in meetings, doing research in teams, preparing analytic/technical reports and press statements, managing complex interactive communication processes will be addressed, with special reference to the role of culture, policy, and law, technical change, and potential conflict. Prerequisite: 25 units. Recommended: for communication co-op students.
An assessment of the social implications of developments in information technology from prehistory to the middle of the 20th century. Topics include: the origins of symbolic representation; the oral tradition; the significance of different systems of writing and numeration; the consequences of print; and the initial changes brought about by electronic media. Prerequisite: CMNS 110.
This course examines television, both as a medium of communication and an element of culture. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
An introduction to the study of popular culture and mass media, with a focus on the organization and role of audiences.   Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
An interdisciplinary examination of the significance of advertising as a social message system in our consumer society. The course proposes an analytical method for appreciating the changing styles and functions of advertising in the 20th century. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
An interdisciplinary examination of the significance of advertising as a social message system in our consumer society. The course proposes an analytical method for appreciating the changing styles and functions of advertising in the 20th century. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130. Writing.
This course introduces students to a variety of digital media communication technologies and techniques, including image and sound capturing and manipulation, Internet-based publishing and research, digitizing, editing and archiving. Design and management tasks involved in communicating using digital media are also introduced, including strategic and research planning, data integrity management, file structuring and packaging, and work presentation. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.  Recommended: CMNS 220.
What do we mean when we talk about the 'cultural industries' today? This course explores the business structure and economics of the cultural sectors, the regulatory and policy frameworks, and their social and cultural contexts. Students are encouraged to develop, compare and contrast at least two sectors from the audio, print or visual industries. While the primary focus is on the Canadian case, students will be encouraged to look at other countries. Overriding themes explore the following: relationships between public and private sectors; independent and commercial creators; rights of creators versus distributors; specialty and general media; indigenous and global contents.  Prerequisite: CMNS 130.
An overview of journalism as a social, cultural and political institution in Canada. Topics include: themes of news; print and electronic journalism; journalism and politics; history of Canadian journalism; legal, technological, professional, corporate and ethical influences. Prerequisite: CMNS 130.
Examination of the political and economic processes that have generated the policies and structures of mass media, telecommunications and related industries; the relationship between the dichotomies of state and market, citizen and consumer, capitalism and democracy, global and local, and sovereignty and globalization in media industries and policies; overview of influences on State and international policies towards the media. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
A survey and analysis of opportunities and constraints in the field of international communication. The course will consider perspectives from which to understand and address regional differences, universal patterns of communication in international relations, and in development co-operation. Comparative and contrastive examples will be drawn from communication practices current in the Asia-Pacific region. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
An introduction to new communication/information technologies, seen as new media of communication: the technologies, their uses, and the social issues arising from them. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 or 130.
An introduction to new communication/information technologies, seen as new media of communication: the technologies, their uses, and the social issues arising from them. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 or 130. Writing.
An introduction to the audio medium as a communication tool and to electroacoustic aspects of communication in general. Specific techniques of field recording, interviewing, editing, sound processing, multi-tracking, and basic digital studio techniques will be presented using the school's studio facilities.
A course designed to develop the student's perception and understanding of sound and its behavior in the interpersonal, social, environmental, media and creative fields. The acoustic and psychoacoustic bases of sound will be introduced with special reference to acoustic design, the electroacoustic media, and sonic environments.
An introduction to empirical research methods in diverse traditions of communication enquiry. Some methods recognize communication as everyday interactions; others analyze communication as a process; still others blend traditional scientific empiricism with analytical and critical methods derived from the arts and humanities. Topics include: ethics, paradigms, conceptualizing and operationalizing research, sampling, interviews, surveys, unobtrusive observation, content analysis, and the role of statistics in communication research. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 or 130. Quantitative.
Media and communication studies often utilize historical, governmental and corporate records. The course introduces the techniques necessary to analyze the primary source documents. Topics include: ethics, documentary discourse analysis, Canadian and international documentary searches on NGOs, governments, corporations; writing of policy briefs. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 or 130.
Examination of a wide range of approaches to research in media and cultural studies, including a discussion of ethical issues. Topics may include: historical methods, field work methods, textual analysis, case studies. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 or 130.  Students who have credit for CMNS 286 in Spring 2004 may not take CMNS 262 for further credit.
Analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
Analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication. Prerequisite: CMNS 110 and 130.
An introduction to context theory and media literacy. Films and documentaries are used as texts for the study of communication and popular culture. Prerequisite: 45 units including two of CMNS 220, 221, 223.
An introduction to context theory and media literacy. Films and documentaries are used as texts for the study of communication and popular culture. Prerequisite: 45 units including two of CMNS 220, 221, 223. Writing.
An examination of the development of communication theory in western social thought from the eighteenth century to the early twentieth century. Discussion is focused around a series of debates about the changing nature of human communication in modernity with specific reference to the rise of modern mass media. Topics discussed include the so-called growth of mass society in modernity; the emergence of Marxism; the origins of modern linguistics; and the rise and reformation of behavioural approaches to communication research. Prerequisite: two of CMNS 210, 221, 240.
The course examines the part played by communication media in children's lives by reviewing the debates and research in this field. Specific attention will be paid to the issues of violence, literacy, imagination, quality and marketing through an examination of the critical writing and advocacy movements which have arisen around the problem of children's media. Prerequisite: 60 units including two of CMNS 220, 221, 223, 226.  Strongly recommended: CMNS 362 or 363.
Examination of the cultural production of popular music with emphasis on the relationship between the nature and strategies of popular music production and the patterns of its audience consumption. Prerequisite: CMNS 221.
Introduction to the history and theory of documentary film, focusing on a range of examples from the 1920's to the present. Explores the shifting definition of documentary and realism. Prerequisite: 60 units including CMNS 220; or FPA 135, 136 or 137. Students who have taken CMNS 386 (Special Topics) with the topic &quot;Problems in Documentary&quot;, offered in Fall 2003, Fall 2005, and Spring 2007 terms, may not take this course for further credit.
This course develops a critical overview of the contemporary debates about the consumer society. This exploration of consumer culture begins by examining recent characterizations of the psycho-social dynamics of consumption in consumer culture. It goes on to trace the historical formation of advertising as a key cultural practice, mediating the market transactions between producers and consumers. The marketing communication model is the focus of a detailed examination of the increasingly sophisticated co-ordination of communication and consumer research activities. Prerequisite: 60 units, including two of CMNS 220, 221, 223 or 226. Strongly recommended: CMNS 362 or 363.
This course develops a critical overview of the contemporary debates about the consumer society. This exploration of consumer culture begins by examining recent characterizations of the psycho-social dynamics of consumption in consumer culture. It goes on to trace the historical formation of advertising as a key cultural practice, mediating the market transactions between producers and consumers. The marketing communication model is the focus of a detailed examination of the increasingly sophisticated co-ordination of communication and consumer research activities. Prerequisite: 60 units, including two of CMNS 220, 221, 223 or 226. Strongly recommended: CMNS 362 or 363. Writing.
An examination of the changing relationships between media, sport and popular culture in both a North American and a global context. Prerequisite: two of CMNS 210, 220, 221, 223, 240. Cannot be taken for further credit is student has taken CMNS 386 under same title.
Investigates both theories and techniques of visualization design, visual culture, and visual communication. Themes covered in the course include: theories of visualization in relation to communication studies; methodologies for studying the interplay of technology, culture and media in visual studies and visual communication design; analysis of imaging conventions and innovations in the context of contemporary global communication; and visual communication in diverse cultural contexts. This is a laboratory- based course, requiring the completion of practical assignments that apply the ideas and theories presented in lectures and readings. Prerequisite: 60 units including two CMNS, IAT or FPA upper division courses. Students who have taken CMNS 387 offered with subtitle &quot;Visualization&quot; may not take this course for further credit.
This course provides an opportunity for students to build on the knowledge they have acquired in Digital Media Communication Techniques (CMNS 226), and apply that knowledge to the production of the School of Communication's web based news magazine and documentary program On The Hill (www.sfu.ca/oth). Students will draw on their understanding of public communication in democracies and media analysis skills to create new and innovative visual and aural journalism. In addition, students will learn to build teamwork skills as they produce segments for the shows in groups. The course seminars will emphasize communication design, and the social and ethical issues which arise when working with documentary and news material for public dissemination. Prerequisite: permission of instructor, and 60 units including CMNS 226 and 235.
An examination of journalism and the news media as a set of institutions with important political and ideological roles. The course overviews theoretical perspectives and applies selected theoretical concepts to such topics as influences on media content, how news generates meaning, ideological aspects of media frames, and the evaluation of journalism's performance in relation to normative expectations of democratic political communication. Prerequisite: two of CMNS 230, 235 and 240.
An examination of rhetoric and persuasion in the context of communication studies. Several classical accounts of persuasion and rhetoric are examined in order to develop a fuller understanding of the promotional ethos of the modern age. How different institutional modes of persuasive discourse have been shaped by a variety of research agendas and underlying theories about human nature is also studied. Prerequisite: 60 units including two of CMNS 220, 221, or 223. Cannot repeat this course for credit if taken as CMNS 286 in 2003/2004.
Television, in broadcast, cable and video-on-demand formats, has dominated the cultural industries of Canada. Traditionally seen as important to political and cultural self-determination, broadcasting strategy, business and government policies are now being adapted in view of globalization of technologies which are altering the production, financing, and distribution of new and existing information and entertainment services. This course focuses on developing applied business and public policy analytic skills. Tools of on-line searches, presentation software, the rudiments of strategic analysis of industrial sectors (strengths, weaknesses, threats, opportunities) and technical policy writing will be covered. A simulation will be staged around a convergence theme drawn from technology, business, or public interest policy issues. Prerequisite: CMNS 240 and 261. Recommended: CMNS 230.
Examination of the modern foundations and current policy processes of federal, provincial and municipal policies for the arts, cultural industries and heritage. Related social policies, such as bilingualism and multiculturalism, and the international context of Canadian cultural policy, will also be addressed. Prerequisite: CMNS 261 and one of CMNS 230 or 240.
Development of the theory and practice of regulation of the telecommunications industry in Canada and the USA. Prerequisites: CMNS 240 and 261.  Recommended: CMNS 230. Students who have taken CMNS 436 in the past may not take this course for further credit.
The course examines communication in the relation between science (technology) and public policy, and more particularly, in the evaluation of risk.   Prerequisite: Two of CMNS 260 (or equivalent - BUEC 232, PSYC 210, STAT 100, 101, 201, 203, 270, 285, SA 255), CMNS 261, or CMNS 262.
An introduction to explanations and interpretations of the roles of communication in development, and the historical framework through which such analysis is made. It shows how an unequal structure of world political economy is conserved in association with ever increasing amounts of information and new means to communicate. Examples from Canada and other countries will be used. Prerequisite: 60 units including CMNS 110 and 130. Recommended: CMNS 240. Students who have taken CMNS 345 may not take CMNS 346 for further credit.
The role of communication, and in particular the mass media, in various types of conflict and the uses of communication-based strategies in the intervention, arbitration and mediation of those conflicts. Prerequisite: 60 units including CMNS 110 and 130. Recommended: CMNS 247 and 362.
Examines the dynamic global transformations in media, including print, broadcast, film, and digital media in a broad international and comparative context. Investigates globalization as a critical concept and considers media in the long history of globalization. Focuses on political, cultural, and technological issues addressed by media and globalization at the turn of the 21st Century. Prerequisite: 60 units including at least two of CMNS 210, 220, 221, 223, 230, 235, 240 or 253. Students who have taken CMNS 387 with the subtitle "Globalization and Media" may not take this course for further credit.
Examination of a particular application of information/communication technology, focussing on the technology itself and its capabilities; how it is implemented, and what social impacts it has on the people who use it. Emphasis is placed on understanding how the system works in the ongoing social context in which it is developed, installed and used. The specific application studied may vary from term to term. Prerequisite: CMNS 253; and CMNS 261 or 362.
This course will explore social issues and values in designing technology, through a focus on both the objects and processes of design. Emphasis will be placed on communication between participants in the design process, and identification of social issues and values that influence design. Students will work in cross-disciplinary groups during labs. Lab exercises will emphasize making decisions that occur during the design process explicit, and making values that enter into design processes explicit. Prerequisite: 60 units, including any one of CMNS 253; CMPT 275; KIN 201, 205 or ENSC 100. CMNS students must also have completed CMNS 362 or 363.
An intensive analysis of the design and function of audio in all forms of electroacoustic media, including both historical analog and contemporary digital forms of communication. Gives specific attention to sound design in film, television, radio, advertising, gaming, online and other types of media soundtracks. The structure of broadcast media considered as well as surrogate listening environments, the sound recording as document, patterns and functions of electroacoustic media usage in daily life, and alternative uses of audio media. The format of the courses will be seminars with accompanying labs in order to cover both the theoretical and applied aspects of media analysis. Prerequisite: CMNS 258 or 226, or equivalent introductory media course with permission of the Instructor. Students who have completed CMNS 386 in Spring 2008, 2009 or 2010 may not complete this course for further credit.
An intermediate level studio workshop to develop the student's skills in sound production with an understanding of the communicational implications of sound design. Audio theory and its applications in both the digital and analogue formats will be presented, along with practical studio techniques for stereo and multi-channel sound production. Prerequisite: CMNS 258 with a grade of B or higher, and approval of instructor.
A special topics course and small class work group at an intermediate level in acoustic communication dealing intensively with specific problems in psychoacoustics, acoustic design, soundscape studies, noise in the community, acoustic aspects of social organization, the acoustic aspects, language and interpersonal communication, electronic sound production, media analysis, theories of sound cognition, and information processing. Prerequisite: CMNS 259.
Research design and techniques for the study of the introduction, uses and consequences of new media and technologies, new communication policies and practices in their socio-economic and cultural context, and communication in innovation and change. Prerequisite: at least 60 units, including two of CMNS 253, CMNS 260 (or equivalent - BUEC 232, PSYC 210, STAT 100, 101, 201, 203, 270, 285, SA 255), or CMNS 261.
A survey and application of research approaches to media and audience analysis including content analysis, textual analysis, agenda setting, effects research, focus group and survey research, message evaluation and audience studies. Prerequisite: at least 60 units, including one of CMNS 220, 221 or 223, and CMNS 260 (or equivalent - BUEC 232, PSYC 210, STAT 100, 101, 201, 203, 270, 285, SA 255). Quantitative.
This course addresses the basic concepts and practices used in the magazine publishing industry in the areas of business, writing, editing, design, marketing, advertising, distribution, and production. It emphasizes readership and editorial policy, new technology and changing costs and revenue patterns. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Intensive analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication. Prerequisite: depends on topic, published before enrolment.
Intensive analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication. Prerequisite: depends on topic, published before enrolment.
Intensive analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication. Prerequisite: depends on topic; published before enrolment.
First term of work experience in the School of Communication's Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: students must complete Bridging Online (visit www.sfu.ca/coop/bol for further details) at least two terms before their anticipated co-op placement. Students must then enrol with the co-op program by the second week of the term preceding the work term of application, and have a minimum GPA of 2.70. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The second term of work experience in the School of Communication Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMNS 395. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
An advanced workshop in network analysis focussed on applied research. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and permission of the instructor.
An advanced seminar in media studies focussing upon theoretical debates about the allegedly ideological character of mass media and mass culture. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 310. Recommended: CMNS 331 and SA 327. Students who have taken CMNS 422 may not take this course for further credit.
Explores the cultural dimension of global flows of capital and data, comparing, on the one hand, the consequences of increased mobility and, on the other hand, the drive towards increased control and immobility of displaced populations. Examines how the tightening of national boundaries and economic and political processes of globalization have left populations "placeless" whether because of war, environmental disaster, etc. Looks at the ways in which these groups make sense of their displacement and immobility through narratives, stories and images, focusing on issues of power and the destruction of social life. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS 221 or 223; and two CMNS upper division courses; and CGPA of 3 or higher. Students who have taken CMNS 487 in terms 1051, 1057 and 1081 cannot take this course for further credit.
Examines why identity is such an important issue for contemporary diasporic communities and former colonies. Introduces students to critiques of representations that construct "racialized" groups as inferior, primitive threats to civilization and their constitution of passive, disciplined subjects. Primarily focuses on innovative cultural strategies developed in Indigenous People, the Black diaspora, Asian/Canadian communities and survivors of the Jewish Holocaust to create ethical communities and critique the impact of colonial violence on contemporary societies. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS 221 or 223; and two CMNS upper division courses; and CGPA of 3 or higher. Students who have taken CMNS 487 in terms 1037, 1047 and 1067 cannot take this course for further credit.
An advanced seminar in applied communication that focuses on the research and strategic design of media messages, campaigns and programs for public awareness, education, and social change. This course involves the application of theories and approaches in critical media analysis to the tasks of media design and media use for public understanding, engagement and participation around social issues. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 221 and one of CMNS 260 (or equivalent - BUEC 232, PSYC 210, STAT 100, 101, 201, 203, 270, 285, SA 255), CMNS 261 or 262.
The workshop examines the growing role that video is playing in a variety of public relations, industrial, advocacy and educational contexts. The emphasis of this course is on issues of communication design in relation to the goals and values in specific communication forums. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 226 and two of CMNS 220, 326, 358.
An advanced workshop in media analysis focussed on applied research. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and permission of instructor.
Applied research seminar using techniques of textual and contextual analysis to test media themes and explore patterns of coverage and omission in Canada's new media. Students also have an opportunity to publicize their work through the NewsWatch Canada Project. Prerequisite: instructor's permission, normally granted on the basis of a CGPA of at least 3.0, and 75 units, including at least one of CMNS 235, 331 or 335, and at least one of CMNS 261 or 363.
Explores the general relationship between mediated politics and political media. The interaction of political marketing, persuasion and political advertising during and between elections is examined. Prerequisite: 75 units including at least two CMNS or DIAL upper division courses. Cannot receive credit for this course if taken as CMNS 486 in Summer 2004/2005.
Advanced seminar on current issues in communication policy. Topics will be selected from among current policy issues in local, national and international aspects of broadcasting, the cultural industries, the arts and heritage. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS 333 or 334.
An advanced seminar to examine key information policy issues and the actors involved in setting policy (governments, information industry, news media, libraries, citizen groups) in Canada, with international comparisons.   Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 261 and one of CMNS 240, 333, 334 or 353.
An advanced seminar on the normative debates, social bases, and strategic potential for media democratization in the context of economically developed liberal democracies like Canada and the United States. This course complements other courses which critically examine state communication policies and the political economy and allegedly ideological character of corporate media. Here, we focus on campaigns and movements in civil society to define and build alternative communicative forms based on equality, democratic participation and/or human rights. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 235, 240 or 331. Cannot be taken for further credit if student has taken CMNS 428 or 487 under the same title.
An advanced workshop in communication policy in media and information technology focussed on applied research. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and permission of the instructor.
Offers a basis for understanding different Asia media systems in concrete historical, political and socio-economic contexts. Introduces students to a range of epistemological and theoretical issues in media systems in a vast and extremely diverse region that is undergoing a period of rapid political, economic, social and cultural transformation. Provides an overview of issues relating to different media systems and case studies of media and politics in specific countries in the region. Prerequisite: 75 units  including one of CMNS 230 or 240, and one of CMNS 261 or 262.
An examination of the domestic and international implications of the development of mass media and telecommunications and the differential impact of the free flow of technology and information. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 240, and 261 or 262.
An exploration of the media and popular culture scene in reform-era China. A wide range of media and popular culture forms and practice (including films, television shows, lifestyle magazines, street tabloids, and popular rhymes) are analysed in their concrete institutional settings and dynamic relationships with official ideologies, market imperatives, and the everyday struggles and cultural sensitivities of various social groups during a period of epochal transformation in China. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS 240, and 261 or 262; and one of CMNS 310, 331, 345, or 346. Students who have taken CMNS 428, 486 or 487 with this topic may not take CMNS 445 for further credit.
Evaluation of the communication of scientific knowledge and the transfer of technology, both within industrialized settings and to non-industrialized settings. Specific reference to the communication of values related to the use of technologies and the role of science and technology in international development. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 345 or 346, and one of CMNS 260 (or equivalent - BUEC 232, PSYC 210, STAT 100, 101, 201, 203, 270, 285, SA 255), CMNS 261 or 262. Recommended: CMNS 253 and 362.
This course provides frameworks and tools with which to understand and evaluate negotiation and evaluate negotiation as a form of communication. The objective of the course is to provide an understanding of the role of communication in the negotiating process, and the consequences of different kinds of negotiation strategies in intercultural, international, competitive, and conflictual situations. It combines theoretical discussion with practical case studies, involves guest negotiators and analysts, and provides an appreciation of the world-wide scale and importance of negotiation as a basis for clarifying relationships. Prerequisite: 75 units including two CMNS and/or DIAL upper division courses; or instructor's written permission. Strongly recommended: CMNS 347. Students who have completed CMNS 347 will be given registration priority.
An advanced workshop in international communication and development focussed on applied research. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and permission of the instructor.
Examines the contemporary construction and maintenance of race and ethnicity, through movies, music, and the Internet. Provides grounding in scholarship on media, race, ethnicity, and identity. Explores the historical role of entertainment in racialization. Investigates contemporary issues and forms of media and race. Prerequisite: 75 units including one of CMNS 220, 221, 223 or 262, and at least two CMNS upper division courses. Students who have taken CMNS 486 with subtitle "Race and the Media" cannot take this course for further credit.
Advanced seminar to discuss issues in the interplay between contemporary society and new computer/communication technologies, at the level of comprehensive theories of society, on one hand, and major public policy, on the other. Prerequisite: 75 units, including CMNS 353 and 362.
An investigation of the content, quality and character of jobs and workplace communication systems that involve computers. An examination of the influence of managerial goals and workplace relations on the design and choice of hardware and software for: office automation; computer-aided and computer-integrated manufacturing systems; computer-aided design, expert systems, and electronic networks. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS 253. Recommended: CMNS 353 and 362.
In the 1970s, technological change came under the scrutiny of a wide range of interest groups. Research concerned with women and technological change documented that women were affected differently by technology than men, and that, in general, women occupy different positions in the technological change process than men. As interest in women and technological change has grown in the past 25 years, the benefits of focusing on gender as a variable of study have extended beyond making women's experiences visible. Focusing on gender offers the possibility of discovering theoretical limitations which, when addressed, have implications that extend beyond the interests of women. Prerequisite: 75 units, including any one of CMNS 253, 353, or 453; CMPT 320; GSWS 204 (or WS 204).
An examination of the special role communication and information systems play in efforts to mitigate effects of major emergencies and disasters. Topics include: Canadian and international disaster management programs, practices and issues; principles of emergency communication planning and operation, and the application and influence of new communication and information technologies (including electronic networks) in hazard information gathering, interpretation, exchange and management. Prerequisite: 75 units, including two of CMNS 230, 240, 253, and 353.
An advanced workshop in applied information technology and its evaluation focussed on applied research. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and permission of instructor.
Focuses on the practical tools and conceptual approaches used in dialogue, with comparisons of the role and impact of dialogue among community, government, corporate, union, First Nations, legal-regulatory, advocacy groups and organizations. Emphasis is on interaction among interest groups and stakeholders, cultures of negotiation and decision-making, techniques of facilitation, and strategies for effective outcomes. Prerequisite: 75 units including either at least two of CMNS 332, 347, 425, 432, 437, 447 or DIAL 390, 391, 392.
Students work under faculty supervision in a placement where dialogue is planned or where dialogue occurs. Arrangements are the responsibility of the student, and enrolment is limited. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS/DIAL 460, and permission of instructor.
Application of marketing concepts to the area of book publishing. The concepts and skills learned will help to differentiate book categories and markets, and to create a marketing strategy for a book or a literary launch. The course will also discuss reading trends and the effect of market conditions on publishing. Prerequisite: 75 units including CMNS 372.
An examination of theory, principles and applications in publication design and print production including computer applications. The course focuses on magazines, books and electronic formats. Creative, marketing and managerial issues will all be explored. Prerequisite: 75 units.
An advanced workshop in publishing analysis or design focussed on applied research. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and permission of the instructor.
Independent research and reading on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and consent of instructor. No more than ten units of Directed Study may be taken.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and consent of instructor. No more than 10 units of directed study may be taken.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and consent of instructor. No more than 10 units of directed study may be taken.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and consent of instructor. No more than 10 units of directed study may be taken.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: two upper division CMNS courses and consent of instructor. No more than 10 units of directed study may be taken.
Intensive analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication and/or attention to the work of a particular writer or school of thought. Prerequisite: depends on topic; published before enrolment.
Intensive analysis of a particular topic in communication and/or attention to the work of a particular writer or school of thought. Prerequisite: depends on topic; published before enrolment.
Intensive analysis of a particular topic in the general area of communication. Prerequisite: depends on topic; published before enrolment.
For students who have at least 24 upper level units in communication, this course offers the opportunity to work under faculty supervision in a field placement situation related to one of the areas of concentration in communication. Arrangements for field placement and faculty supervision are the responsibility of the student, and enrolment will depend upon the availability of faculty resources in any semester. Prerequisite: 75 units and permission of the school.
The third term of work experience for students in the School of Communication Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMNS 396. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The fourth term of work experience for students in the School of Communication Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the Units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMNS 494. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
An optional fifth term of work experience for students in the School of Communication Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMNS 495. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
Preparation for honors research project, including literature review, ethics approval (if necessary), and presentation of work in progress at end of term. Prerequisite: students accepted into honors program only.
Intensive work in a particular topic in the general field of communication. Involves an extensive individual research project under the direct supervision of at least two committee members (at least one of whom is a CMNS faculty member) who will provide guidance and critical feedback as necessary. Presentation of completed project at end of term. Prerequisite: successful completion of CMNS 497.
This course surveys current interdisciplinary perspectives in communication studies and theory. It is normally offered in the fall term, and expected in the first year of graduate study.
No description available
A survey course which examines the problems, methods and theoretical assumptions in communication research using case studies of research design and methods. Students may design a research project and conduct a small pilot study in a selected area. Normally offered in the spring term and expected in the first year of graduate study.
A survey of classic works, issues and debates in communication theory.
No description available
Survey of research methodology and techniques used in empirical communication studies. Includes research design, measurement, and the use of the computer in evaluation.
A study of the social theory of information technologies, examining issues affecting computer-mediated communication.
This course examines and evaluates the media (such as journalism, film, community media, or digital media) as fields of political and cultural practices, in relation to debates, concepts and models of the public sphere, democratic communication, and alternative media practices.
A study of colonialism, culture, and identity with a focus on the strategies used by diasporic communities and (neo)colonial subjects to address the impact of colonial violence as well as create ethical communities. Historical and contemporary case studies will be examined. Students who took CMNS 855 in Term 1071 may not take this course for further credit.
Examines recent debates in popular culture and media theory, including post-modernism, hegemony, resistance and culture at the margin.
A study of the political, economic and social process that produces the structure and policies of mass media, and of telecommunication agencies in their historical setting.
A study of communication in development, with a special emphasis on the confrontation of  knowledge systems, and their expertise; international organizations and social justice; the roles of science and technology in development; the process of globalization; media and environmental sustainability.
Pursuance of particular areas of interest related to a student's program.
Pursuance of interest in specific areas, including field studies related to the student's program. May include work and study in supervised professional settings.
Specialized one-time graduate course offerings on topics related to the current research of school faculty of visiting professors.
Advanced work in an area of specialization. Review and evaluation of research in progress.
Specialized graduate course offering on a topic related to the current research of school faculty or visiting professor.
Specialized graduate course offering on a topic related to the current research of school faculty or visiting professor.
Special topics in sound and communication studies with emphasis on specific problems in psycho-acoustics, theories of sound cognition and information processing, soundscape studies, acoustic design, community noise surveys, media analysis and related technology. Students will gain experience in designing and conducting research projects in one of these areas. Prerequisite: CMNS 359 or equivalent.
Discussion of essentials of researching, writing, and defending a thesis. Presentation by students of thesis related research plans or results, thesis architecture, of finished chapters for critical review by faculty and students. MA students must complete this course once before proceeding to a thesis defence. S/U standing only.
Supervised enquiry in concentrated areas of specialization.
Work and study in an approved professional setting.
External research beyond regular contact with the University.
No description available
No description available
Examination of three areas of which one must be on the theoretical or methodological framework/procedures indicated by the proposed dissertation. S/U standing only. The exam may be retaken once in the event of unsatisfactory performance.
No description available
No description available
Concerned with computer literacy and appreciation. What are computers? What do they do? How do they do it? How will they affect us? Illustrations given of applications of computing in the arts, commerce, industry, science and everyday activity. Programming is introduced but not emphasized; instead, students will be exposed to a variety of computer hardware and software elements that are in wide use. No special prerequisite. Students with a grade of B or higher in BC high school computer science 12, or those who have obtained credit for or are currently enrolled in any other Computing Science course may not take CMPT XX1 for further credit.
Introduction to the fundamentals of computer operation and computer programming. The use of software packages is emphasized, focussing on spreadsheets, databases, and presentation graphics. Techniques of solving problems using structured programs in a modern database programming environment are introduced. Prerequisite: BC mathematics 12 or MATH 100 or MATH 110. Students with credit for CMPT 102, 120, 126 or 128 may not take CMPT 100 for further credit.
A programming course which will provide the science student with a working knowledge of a scientific programming language and an introduction to computing concepts, structured programming, and modular design. The student will also gain knowledge in the use of programming environments including the use of numerical algorithm packages.  Corequisite: MATH 152 or 155 (or 158). Students with credit for CMPT 120, 126 or 128 may not take CMPT 102 for further credit. Quantitative.
The course teaches fundamentals of informative and persuasive communication for professional engineers and computer scientists in order to assist students in thinking critically about various contemporary technical, social, and ethical issues. It focuses on communicating technical information clearly and concisely, managing issues of persuasion when communicating with diverse audiences, presentation skills, and teamwork.  Corequisite: CMPT 106 or ENSC 106. This course is identical to ENSC 105W and students cannot take both for credit. Writing.
Reviews the different modes of thought characteristic of science, engineering and computing. Examines the histories and chief current research issues in these fields. Considers the ethical and social responsibilities of engineering and computing work. Corequisite: CMPT 105W or ENSC 105W. Students who have taken ENSC 100 cannot take this course for credit. CMPT 106 is identical to ENSC 106 and students cannot take both for credit.
Topics will include user interfaces, objects, event-driven programming, program design, and file and data management. Prerequisite: BC mathematics 12 (or equivalent) or any 100 level MATH course. Students who have obtained credit for, or are currently enrolled in a computing science course at the 200 level or higher, or ITEC 240, 241 or 242 may not take CMPT 110 for further credit except with permission of the School of Computing Science. Quantitative.
Special topics in computing science which are of current interest to non-computing students. The course will be offered from time to time depending on availability of faculty and on student interest. Students who have obtained credit for, or are currently enrolled in a computing science course at the 200 level or higher, may not take CMPT 118 for further credit.
An elementary introduction to computing science and computer programming, suitable for students with little or no programming background. Students will learn fundamental concepts and terminology of computing science, acquire elementary skills for programming in a high-level language and be exposed to diverse fields within, and applications of computing science. Topics will include: pseudocode, data types and control structures, fundamental algorithms, computability and complexity, computer architecture, and history of computing science. Treatment is informal and programming is presented as a problem-solving tool. Students should consult with the self-evaluation on the School of Computing Science website to decide whether they should follow the CMPT 120/125 course sequence or enrol in CMPT 126. Prerequisite: BC Math 12 or equivalent is recommended. Students with credit for CMPT 102, 125, 126, 128 or CMPT 200 or higher may not take for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A rigorous introduction  to computing science and computer programming, suitable for students who already have some backgrounds in computing science and programming.  Intended for students who will major in computing science or a related program. Topics include: fundamental algorithms; elements of empirical and theoretical algorithmics; abstract data types and elementary data structures; basic object-oriented programming and software design; computation and computability; specification and program correctness; and history of computing science.  Prerequisite: BC MATH 12 (or equivalent) and CMPT 120. Students with credit for CMPT 126, 128 or CMPT 200 or higher may not take for further credit. Quantitative.
A rigorous introduction to computing science and computer programming, suitable for students who already have substantial programming background. This course provides a condensed version of the two-course sequence of CMPT 120/125, with the primary focus on computing science and object oriented programming. Topics include: fundamental algorithms and problem solving; abstract data types and elementary data structures; basic object-oriented programming and software design; elements of empirical and theoretical algorithmics; computation and computability; specification and program correctness; and history of computing science. Prerequisite: BC MATH 12 (or equivalent). Students should feel comfortable writing programs in a structured language. Students must consult with the self-evaluation on the Computing Science web site to decide whether they should follow the CMPT 120/125 course sequence or enroll in CMPT 126.  Students with credit for CMPT 125, 128 or CMPT 200 or higher may not take for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
An introduction to computing science and computer programming, suitable for students wishing to major in Engineering Science or a related program. This course introduces basic computing science concepts, and fundamentals of object oriented programming. Topics include: fundamental algorithms and problem solving; abstract data types and elementary data structures; basic object-oriented programming and software design; elements of empirical and theoretical algorithmics; computation and computability; specification and program correctness; and history of computing science. The course will use a programming language commonly used in Engineering Science. Prerequisite: BC MATH 12 (or equivalent). Students with credit for CMPT 125, 126 or CMPT 200 or higher may not take for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Digital design concepts are presented in such a way that students will learn how basic logic blocks of a simple computer are designed. Topics covered include: basic Von Neumann computer architecture; an introduction to assembly language programming; combinational logic design; and sequential logic design. Students who have taken ENSC 150 cannot take for further credit. Prerequisite: Strongly recommended: MACM 101 and either CMPT 120 or equivalent programming. Quantitative.
In this course, we shall examine the structure of the Internet and the World Wide Web as well as design and create web sites. Students who have obtained credit for, or are currently enrolled in a CMPT course at the 200 division or higher, CMPT 118 or 170, or IAT 265 or 267 may not take CMPT 165 for further credit. Breadth-Science.
An informal introduction to programming using examples drawn from animation and graphics. Fundamental programming language features are covered, including variables, expressions, statements, loops, functions, and objects. Class design, event-driven programming or other advanced programming techniques may be introduced as needed. No prior programming experience is assumed. Prerequisite:    Recommended: BC Math 12 or equivalent.
An introduction to the creation of web pages, as well as interactive websites. Students will learn how to create web pages using current best practices. Creation of web-based application using a modern web application framework. Prerequisite: CMPT 120 or 126 or 128. Enrolling in CMPT 125 concurrently is highly recommended if CMPT 126 or 128 has not already been completed.
Introduction to object-oriented software design concepts, the object-oriented features of the C++ language, other advanced C++ features, plus a simple introduction to the fundamentals of graphical user interfaces and the development of windowed applications. Prerequisite: CMPT 125, 126 or 128.  Recommended: CMPT 225.
Special topics in computing science which are of current interest or are not covered in the regular curriculum will be offered from time to time depending on availability of faculty and on student interest.
Introduction to a variety of practical and important data structures and methods for implementation and for experimental and analytical evaluation. Topics include: stacks, queues and lists; search trees; hash tables and algorithms; efficient sorting; object-oriented programming; time and space efficiency analysis; and experimental evaluation. Prerequisite: MACM 101 and one of CMPT 125, 126 or 128; or CMPT 128 and approval as a Biomedical Engineering Major. Quantitative.
This course deals with the main concepts embodied in computer hardware architecture. In particular, the organization, design and limitations of the major building blocks in modern computers is covered in detail. Topics will include: processor organization; control logic design; memory systems; and architectural support for operating systems and programming languages. A hardware description language will be used as a tool to express and work with design concepts. Prerequisite: CMPT/ENSC 150. This course is identical to ENSC 250 and students cannot take both courses for credit. Quantitative.
An exploration of the major concepts of analytical and computational geometry and an introduction to tools for programming geometric information and displaying the results. Students completing this course will have a basic understanding of how computer graphics systems work; skills in writing programs to display geometric information for graphics display; ability to solve geometric problems using transformations, geometric representations and the basic algorithms of computational geometry; and familiarity with various common mathematical notation for representing spatial objects. Prerequisite: CMPT 125, 126, or 128. MATH 232.
Introduction to software engineering techniques used in analysis/design and in software project management. The course centres on a team project involving requirements gathering, object analysis and simple data normalization, use-case-driven user documentation and design followed by implementation and testing. Additionally, there is an introduction to project planning, metrics, quality assurance, configuration management, and people issues. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, MACM 101, MATH 151 (or MATH 150), one W course. MATH 154 or 157 with a grade of at least B+ may be substituted for MATH 151 (or MATH 150). Cannot receive credit for both CMPT 276 and CMPT 275.
An overview of various techniques used for software development and software project management. Major tasks and phases in modern software development, including requirements, analysis, documentation, design, implementation, testing, installation, support, and maintenance. Project management issues are also introduced. Prerequisite: One W course, CMPT 225, MACM 101, MATH 151 (or MATH 150). MATH 154/157 with at least B+ may substitute for MATH 151 (or MATH 150). Cannot receive credit for both CMPT 275 and CMPT 276.
This course aims to give the student an understanding of what a modern operating system is, and the services it provides. It also discusses some basic issues in operating systems and provides solutions. Topics include multiprogramming, process management, memory management, and file systems. Prerequisite: CMPT 225 and MACM 101.
Topics include strategic planning and use of information systems, current ad future technologies, technology assimilation, organizational learning, end-user computing, managing projects and people, managing production operations and networks, evaluating performance and benefits, crisis management and disaster recovery, security and control, financial accountability, and proactive management techniques for a changing environment. Prerequisite: CMPT 225.
This course is an introduction to the modelling, analysis, and computer simulation of complex systems. Topics include analytic modelling, discrete event simulation, experimental design, random number generation, and statistical analysis. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, MACM 101, STAT 270.
Analysis and design of data structures for lists, sets, trees, dictionaries, and priority queues. A selection of topics chosen from sorting, memory management, graphs and graph algorithms. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, MACM 201, MATH 151 (or MATH 150), and MATH 232 or 240.
This course introduces students to formal models of computations such as Turing machines and RAMs. Notions of tractability and intractability are discusses both with respect to computability and resource requirements. The relationship of these concepts to logic is also covered. Prerequisite: MACM 201.
Provides a unified discussion of the fundamental approaches to the problems in artificial intelligence. The topics considered are: representational typology and search methods; game playing, heuristic programming; pattern recognition and classification; theorem-proving; question-answering systems; natural language understanding; computer vision. Prerequisite: CMPT 225 and MACM 101.
Special topics in computing science at the 300 level. Topics that are of current interest or are not covered in regular curriculum will be offered from time to time depending on availability of faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT 225.
An examination of social processes that are being automated and implications for good and evil, that may be entailed in the automation of procedures by which goods and services are allocated. Examination of what are dehumanizing and humanizing parts of systems and how systems can be designed to have a humanizing effect. Prerequisite: A CMPT course and 45 units. Breadth-Science.
The theory and practice of computer ethics. The basis for ethical decision-making and the methodology for reaching ethical decisions concerning computing matters will be studied. Writing as a means to understand and reason about complex ethical issues will be emphasized. Prerequisite: three CMPT units, 30 total units, and any lower division W course. Writing.
The principles involved in using computers for data acquisition, real-time processing, pattern recognition and experimental control in biology and medicine will be developed. The use of large data bases and simulation will be explored. Prerequisite: Completion of 60 units including CMPT 125, 126 or 128 (or 102 with a grade of B or higher).
Logical representations of data records. Data models. Studies of some popular file and database systems. Document retrieval. Other related issues such as database administration, data dictionary and security. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, MACM 101.
This course provides an introduction to the fundamentals of computer graphics. Topics include graphics display and interaction hardware, basic algorithms for 2D primitives, anti-aliasing, 2D and 3D geometrical transformations, 3D projections/viewing, Polygonal and hierarchical models, hidden-surface removal, basic rendering techniques (color, shading, raytracing, radiosity), and interaction techniques. Prerequisite: CMPT 225 and MATH 232 or 240.
This course provides a comprehensive study of user interface design. Topics include: goals and principles of UI design (systems engineering and human factors), historical perspective, current paradigms (widget-based, mental model, graphic design, ergonomics, metaphor, constructivist/iterative approach, and visual languages) and their evaluation, existing tools and packages (dialogue models, event-based systems, prototyping), future paradigms, and the social impact of UI. Prerequisite: CMPT 225.
Multimedia systems design, multimedia hardware and software, issues in effectively representing, processing, and retrieving multimedia data such as text, graphics, sound and music, image and video. Prerequisite: CMPT 225.
This course focuses on the computer-related problems of information system design and procedures of design implementation. Well-established design methodologies will be discussed, and case studies will be used to illustrate various techniques of system design. Prerequisite: CMPT 275 or 276; CMPT 354.
Data communication fundamentals (data types, rates, and transmission media). Network architectures for local and wide areas. Communications protocols suitable for various architectures. ISO protocols and internetworking. Performance analysis under various loadings and channel error rates. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, CMPT/ENSC 150  and MATH 151 (MATH 150). MATH 154 or 157 with a grade of at least B+ may be substituted for MATH 151 (MATH 150).
Survey of modern software development methodology. Several software development process models will be examined, as will the general principles behind such models. Provides experience with different programming paradigms and their advantages and disadvantages during software development. Prerequisite: CMPT 276 or 275.
Abstraction principles and formalization techniques for modeling software systems in early design phases. Design is a creative activity calling for abstract models that facilitate reasoning about the key system attributes to ensure that these attributes are properly established prior to actually building a system. The focus is on specification and validation techniques rather than on formal verification. Prerequisite: MACM 101, 201. Recommended: CMPT 275.
Covers professional writing in computing science, including format conventions and technical reports. Examines group dynamics, including team leadership, dispute resolution and collaborative writing. Also covers research methods. Prerequisite: Any lower-division W course. Corequisite: CMPT 275. Writing.
This course covers the key components of a compiler for a high level programming language. Topics include lexical analysis, parsing, type checking, code generation and optimization. Students will work in teams to design and implement an actual compiler making use of tools such as lex and yacc. Prerequisite: MACM 201, CMPT 150 and 225.
Various concepts and principles underlying the design and use of modern programming languages are considered in the context of procedural, object-oriented, functional and logic programming languages. Topics include data and control structuring constructs, facilities for modularity and data abstraction, polymorphism, syntax, and formal semantics. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, MACM 101.
This course considers modelling and programming techniques appropriate for symbolic data domains such as mathematical expressions, logical formulas, grammars and programming languages. Topics include recursive and functional programming style, grammar-based data abstraction, simplification and reduction transformations, conversions to canonical form, environment data structures and interpreters, metaprogramming, pattern matching and theorem proving. Prerequisite: CMPT 225;  MACM 101.
Advanced concepts in modern operating systems such as scheduling algorithms, address space protection, virtual memory, multiprocessor operating systems, microkernels, virtual machine hypervisors, embedded and real-time operating systems. Students will implement parts of an operating system. Prerequisite: CMPT 150 and 300.
The main cryptographic tools and primitives, their use in cryptographic applications; security and weaknesses of the current protocols. The notion of security, standard encryption schemes, digital signatures, zero-knowledge, selected other topics. Prerequisite: MACM 201. CMPT 307 and 308 are recommended.
Models of computation, methods of algorithm design; complexity of algorithms; algorithms on graphs, NP-completeness, approximation algorithms, selected topics. Prerequisite: CMPT 307.
Mathematical preliminaries; convex hull algorithms; intersection problems; closest-point problems and their applications. Prerequisite: CMPT 307.
Machine models and their equivalences, complexity classes, separation theorems, reductions, Cook's theorem, NP-completeness, the polynomial time hierarchy, boolean circuit models and parallel complexity theory, other topics of interest to the students and instructor. Prerequisite: CMPT 307.
Network design parameters and goals, dynamic networks and permutations, routing in direct networks, structured communication in direct networks, other topics of interest to the students and instructor. Prerequisite: CMPT 307 and 371.
Current topics in theoretical computing science depending on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT 307.
Formal and foundational issues dealing with the representation of knowledge in artificial intelligence systems are covered. Questions of semantics, incompleteness, non-monotonicity and others will be examined. As well, particular approaches, such as procedural or semantic network, may be discussed. Prerequisite: completion of nine units in Computing Science upper division courses or, in exceptional cases, permission of the instructor.
Computational approaches to image understanding will be discussed in relation to theories about the operation of the human visual system and with respect to practical applications in robotics. Topics will include edge detection, shape from shading, stereopsis, optical flow, Fourier methods, gradient space, three-dimensional object representation and constraint satisfaction. Prerequisite: MATH 152, and nine units in Computing Science upper division courses or permission of the instructor.
This course examines the theoretical and applied problems of constructing and modelling systems, which aim to extract and represent the meaning of natural language sentences or of whole discourses, but drawing on contributions from the fields of linguistics, cognitive psychology, artificial intelligence and computing science. Prerequisite: completion of nine units in Computing Science upper division courses or, in exceptional cases, permission of the instructor.
This course covers various topics in computer vision with the emphasis on the model-based approach. Main subjects include 2-D and 3-D representations, matching, constraint relaxation, model-based vision systems. State-of-the-art robot vision systems will be used extensively as study cases. The solid modelling and CAD aspects of this course should also interest students of computer graphics. Prerequisite: MATH 152 and nine units in Computing Science upper division courses, or permission of the instructor.
To be individually arranged.
To be individually arranged.
Intelligent Systems using modern constraint programming and heuristic search methods. A survey of this rapidly advancing technology as applied to scheduling, planning, design and configuration. An introduction to constraint programming, heuristic search, constructive (backtrack) search, iterative improvement (local) search, mixed-initiative systems and combinatorial optimization. Prerequisite: CMPT 225.
Computationally-oriented theories of human cognitive architecture are explored, beginning with neurologically inspired (neural network) models of "low-level" brain processes, and progressing upwards to higher-level symbolic processing, of the kind that occurs in rule-following and problem solving. Arguments concerning the need for modular processing and combinatorially adequate forms of mental representation are examined at length. Prerequisite: CMPT 225. Recommended: CMPT 310.
Current topics in artificial intelligence depending on faculty and student interest.
First term of work experience in the School of Computing Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: students must complete Bridging Online (visit www.sfu.ca/coop/bol for further details) at least two terms before their anticipated co-op placement. Students must then enrol with the co-op program by the second week of the term preceding the work term. Normally, students will have completed a minimum of 45 units by the end of the term of application, CMPT 275 or 276, and have a minimum CGPA of 2.50. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The second term of work experience for students in the Computing Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMPT 426, CGPA of 2.50. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The third term of work experience for students in the Computing Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMPT 427, CGPA of 2.50. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The fourth term of work experience for students in the Computing Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMPT 428, CGPA of 2.50. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
An optional fifth term of work experience for students in the Computing Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: CMPT 429, CGPA of 2.50. Graded as pass/fail (P/F).
An introduction to distributed systems: systems consisting of multiple physical components connected over a network. Architectures of such systems, ranging from client-server to peer-to-peer. Distributed systems are analyzed via case studies of real network file systems, replicated systems, sensor networks and peer-to-peer systems. Hands-on experience designing and implementing a complex distributed system. Prerequisite: CMPT 300, 371. Students who have taken CMPT 401 before September 2008 may not take this course for further credit.
The design and implementation of real-time systems. Techniques for specifying system timing requirements and determining if these requirements are met. Different models for the design of real-time schedulers are examined and analyzed. The design of real-time operating systems and their role in supporting real-time systems are also studied. Prerequisite: CMPT 250, 300.
The basics of embedded system organization, hardware-software co-design, and programmable chip technologies are studied. Formal models and specification languages for capturing and analyzing the behavior of embedded systems. The design and use of tools for system partitioning and hardware/software co-design implementation, validation, and verification are also studied. Prerequisite: CMPT 250, 300.
This course introduces students to the computing science principles underlying computational biology. The emphasis is on the design, analysis and implementation of computational techniques. Possible topics include algorithms for sequence alignment, database searching, gene finding, phylogeny and structure analysis.  Prerequisite: CMPT 307. Students with credit for CMPT 341 may not take this course for further credit.
An advanced course on database systems which covers crash recovery, concurrency control, transaction processing, distributed database systems as the core material and a set of selected topics based on the new developments and research interests, such as object-oriented data models and systems, extended relational systems, deductive database systems, and security and integrity. Prerequisite: CMPT 300 and 354.
Introduction to the essentials of information retrieval and the applications of information retrieval in web search and web information systems. Topics include the major models of information retrieval, similarity search, text content search, link structures and web graphics, web mining and applications, crawling, search engines, and some advanced topics such as spam detection, online advertisement, and fraud detection in online auctions. Prerequisite: CMPT 354.
Current topics in database and information systems depending on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT 354.
Covers advanced topics and techniques in computer graphics with a focus on image synthesis. Topics include photorealistic rendering, advanced ray tracing, Monte Carlo methods, photon maps, radiosity, light fields, participating media, as well as tone reproduction. Prerequisite: CMPT 361, MACM 201 and 316. Students with credit for CMPT 451 may not take CMPT 461 for further credit.
Covers advanced topics in geometric modeling and processing for computer graphics, such as Bezier and B-spline techniques, subdivision curves and surfaces, solid modeling, implicit representation, surface reconstruction, multi-resolution modeling, digital geometry processing (e.g. mesh smoothing, compression, and parameterization), point-based representation, and procedural modeling. Prerequisite: CMPT 361, MACM 316. Students with credit for CMPT 469 between 2003 and 2007 or equivalent may not take CMPT 464 for further credit.
Topics and techniques in animation, including: The history of animation, computers in animation, traditional animation approaches, and computer animation techniques such as geometric modelling, interpolation, camera controls, kinematics, dynamics, constraint-based animation, realistic motion, temporal aliasing, digital effects and post production. Prerequisite: CMPT 361 and MACM 316 or permission of the instructor.
Presents advanced topics in the field of scientific and information visualization. Topics include an introduction to visualization (importance, basic approaches, and existing tools), abstract visualization concepts, human perception, visualization methodology, data representation, 2D and 3D display, interactive visualization, and their use in medical, scientific, and business applications. Prerequisite: CMPT 361, MACM 316.
An introduction to the fundamentals of digital audio, computer music, basic sound synthesis algorithms, and digital audio effects and processing. Topics include concepts of sound and digital audio representation, basic concepts of digital filtering, fundamentals of spectrum analysis, and sound synthesis techniques. Understanding of theoretical concepts will be consolidated through practical programming assignments in Matlab, however there will also be exposure to various freeware real-time audio programming and sound editing environments. Prerequisite: MATH 152 and one of CMPT 125, 126 or 128 (or permission of instructor).
Current topics in computer graphics depending on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT 361.
This course examines: two-tier/multi-tier client/server architectures; the architecture of a Web-based information system; web servers/browser; programming/scripting tools for clients and servers; database access; transport of programming objects; messaging systems; security; and applications (such as e-commerce and on-line learning). Prerequisite: CMPT 354.
This course covers the fundamentals of higher level network functionality such as remote procedure/object calls, name/address resolution, network file systems, network security and high speed connectivity/bridging/switching. Prerequisite: CMPT 300 and 371.
Factors in software quality include functionality, reliability, usability, efficiency, maintainability, and portability. Techniques for assessing the quality of software with respect to such factors, and methods for improving the quality of both software products and software development processes. Prerequisite: CMPT 373.
Web service based systems are fundamentally different from traditional software systems. The conceptual and methodological differences between a standard software development process and the development of a web service based information system. The technology involved during the construction of their own web service based application in an extensive project. Prerequisite: CMPT 371.
Students will study in-depth the techniques, tools and standards needed in the management of software development. Topics will include software process and quality standards, life cycle models, requirements specification issues, project estimation, planning and tracking, project management tools, team dynamics and management, configuration and change management techniques and tools, metrics, quality assurance and test techniques, professional and legal issues. Prerequisite: CMPT 275 or 276 and 15 units of upper division courses. Recommended: co-op experience. Students with credit for CMPT 373 may not take this course for further credit.
Introduces, at an accessible level, a formal framework for symbolic model checking, one of the most important verification methods. The techniques are illustrated with examples of verification of reactive systems and communication protocols. Students learn to work with a model checking tool. Prerequisite: CMPT 275 or 276.
Current topics in computing systems depending on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT 401.
The functional style of programming will be examined in the context of a modern functional language such as Haskell. Topics will include lazy evaluation and infinite data structures, higher order functions, pattern matching, program transformation and verification, and polymorphic types. Prerequisite: CMPT 383.
Current topics in programming languages depending on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT 383.
Independent study in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor(s) that are not covered by existing course offerings. Students must submit a proposal to the undergraduate chair, including the name and signature of the supervising faculty member(s). The proposal must include details of the material to be covered and the work to be submitted. Prerequisite: students must have completed 90 units, including 15 units of upper division CMPT courses, and have a GPA of at least 3. The proposal must be submitted to the undergraduate chair at least 15 days in advance of the term. The proposal must be signed by the supervisor(s) and the undergraduate chair.
Students will select one project to be completed in their final year of study. Each student must complete a project report and make a project presentation. The project may include: a research survey, a project implementation, a research paper/report. Prerequisite: Students must be in their final year of the Dual Degree Program. Prerequisite:    Submission of a satisfactory capstone project proposal.
Students must submit a proposal to the Undergraduate Chair, including the name and signature of the supervising faculty member(s). Students must complete a project report and make a project presentation. This course can satisfy the research project requirements for Computing Science honors students. Prerequisite: students must have completed 90 units, including 15 units of upper division CMPT courses, and have a GPA of at least 3. The proposal must be submitted to the Undergraduate Chair at least 15 days in advance of the term. The proposal must be signed by the supervisor(s) and the undergraduate chair.
Current topics in computer hardware depending on faculty and student interest. Prerequisite: CMPT/ENSC 250.
The problem-based learning course will develop students' ability to exchange ideas in small groups focused on real but simplified problems in bioinformatics. Problems will be carefully selected to cover all aspects of bioinformatics research.   Prerequisites: enrolled in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to MBB 505 and students can not take both courses for credit.
Advanced seminar series for bioinformatics.  Prerequisites: Enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to MBB 506 and students can not take both courses for credit.
This course will introduce graduate students in Education to the basics of computing science. Emphasis will be placed on the use of microcomputers. Topics will be programming microcomputers; file handling; microcomputer hardware; word processing; graphics; social, economic and legal implications. Prerequisite: graduate status in education. If the student has an adequate background in computing, this course must be replaced by other computing science undergraduate or graduate courses.
This course introduces some formal topics in Computing Science to the graduate student in education. Topics include discrete mathematical structures; models of computing; data structures; formal languages and algorithms. Also, methods will be introduced for the design and implementation of large programs using structured modular design. Prerequisite: CMPT 601 or consent of instructor(s).
One term of original bioinformatics research conducted in the lab of a designated mentor. Students are required to write their results in a scientific journal format and defend these results before a panel consisting of the project mentor plus two other qualified faculty members. Prerequisite: enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to MBB 611 and students can not take both courses for credit.
One term of original bioinformatics research conducted in the lab of a designated mentor. Students are required to write their results in a scientific journal format and defend these results before a panel consisting of the project mentor plus two other qualified faculty members. Prerequisites: enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to MBB 612 and students can not receive credit for both courses.
One term of original bioinformatics research conducted in the lab of a designated mentor. Students are required to write their results in a scientific journal format and defend these results before a panel consisting of the project mentor plus two other qualified faculty members. Prerequisites: enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to MBB 613 and student can not receive credit for both courses.
This course is the first term of work experience in the School of Computing Science Co-operative Education Program for the students in the graduate dual degree master program. Units of this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree.
Following CMPT 626, this course is the second term of work experience in the School of Computing Science Co-operative Education Program for the students in the graduate dual degree master program. Units of this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree.
Following CMPT 626 and 627, this course is the third term of work experience in the School of Computing Science Co-operative Education Program for the students in the graduate dual degree master program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree.
Deep connections between logic and computation have been evident since early work in both areas. More recently, logic-based methods have led to important progress in diverse areas of computing science. This course will provide a foundation in logic and computability suitable for students who wish to understand the application of logic in various areas of CS, or as preparation for more advanced study in logic or theoretical CS.
The objective of this course is to expose students to basic techniques in algorithm design and analysis. Topics will include greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, advanced data structures, network flows, randomized algorithms.
This course provides a broad view of theoretical computing science with an emphasis on complexity theory. Topics will include a review of formal models of computation, language classes, and basic complexity theory; design and analysis of efficient algorithms; survey of structural complexity including complexity hierarchies, NP-completeness, and oracles; approximation techniques for discrete problems.
Fundamental algorithmic techniques used to solve computational problems encountered in molecular biology. This area is usually referred to as Bioinformatics or Computational Biology. Students who have taken CMPT 881 (Bioinformatics) in 2007 or earlier may not take CMPT 711 for further credit.
Knowledge representation is the area of Artificial Intelligence concerned with how knowledge can be represented symbolically and manipulated by reasoning programs. This course addresses problems dealing with the design of languages for representing knowledge, the formal interpretation of these languages and the design of computational mechanisms for making inferences. Since much of Artificial Intelligence requires the specification of a large body of domain-specific knowledge, this area lies at the core of AI. Prerequisites: CMPT 310/710 recommended. Cross-listed course with CMPT 411.
Provides an overview and in-depth introduction on several new developments in computational logic for intelligent systems. In particular, we shall cover three areas of strategic importance: natural language processing, abductive logic programming and constraint-based logic programming. The purpose is to introduce graduate students to the frontiers of computational logic research and applications. Students of various backgrounds, such as Linguistics and Cognitive Sciences, are most welcome. Some of the course will proceed in seminar style. Students should be prepared to read and present papers and to participate in discussions.
Machine Learning is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience. Provides students who conduct research in machine learning, or use it in their research, with a grounding in both the theoretical justification for, and practical application of, machine learning algorithms. Covers techniques in supervised and unsupervised learning, the graphical model formalism, and algorithms for combining models. Students who have taken CMPT 882 (Machine Learning) in 2007 or earlier may not take CMPT 726 for further credit.
This course will cover basic concepts in the area of programming languages. The course will be largely of a theoretical nature and will concentrate on fundamental concepts of lasting importance, rather than topics of current interest.
This course will cover functional programming including introduction to a functional programming language, program transformation and verification, implementation of functional programming languages, and other selected topics which may include parallel evaluation of functional programs, analysis of performance, and advanced applications. Students who have taken CMPT 831 may not take this course for further credit.
Introduction to advanced database system concepts, including query processing, transaction processing, distributed and heterogeneous databases, object-oriented and object-relational databases, data mining and data warehousing, spatial and multimedia systems and Internet information systems.
The student will learn basic concepts and techniques of data mining. Unlike data management required in traditional database applications, data analysis aims to extract useful patterns, trends and knowledge from raw data for decision support. Such information are implicit in the data and must be mined to be useful.
This course examines fundamental principles of software engineering and state-of-the-art techniques for improving the quality of software designs. With an emphasis on methodological aspects and mathematical foundations, the specification, design and test of concurrent and reactive systems is addressed in depth. Students learn how to use formal techniques as a practical tool for the analysis and validation of key system properties in early design stages. Applications focus on high level design of distributed and embedded systems.
Precedence, LL(k), LR(k) grammars; SLR(k), LALR(k), L(m)R(k) parsing techniques; transduction grammars; general compiler organization, code generation and optimization; memory allocation for object programs; garbage collection.  Students who have taken CMPT 830 may not take this course for further credit.
This course will discuss design issues relating to the functionality and performance of modern workstation operating systems, such as methods for sharing memory, file and data objects, and choice of communication protocols. The special needs of high performance multiprocessor systems and real time systems will also be addressed.
Advanced topics and techniques in computer graphics with a focus on image synthesis are covered. Topics include photorealistic rendering, advanced ray tracing, Monte Carlo methods, photon maps, radiosity, light fields, participating media, as well as tone reproduction. Students with credit for CMPT 461, CMPT 770, or equivalent may not take CMPT 761 for further credit.
Advanced topics in geometric modeling and processing for computer graphics, such as Bezier and B-spline techniques, subdivision curves and surfaces, solid modeling, implicit representation, surface reconstruction, multi-resolution modeling, digital geometry processing (e.g., mesh smoothing, compression, and parameterization), point-based representation, and procedural modeling. Prerequisite: CMPT 361, MACM 316. Students with credit for CMPT 464 or equivalent may not take CMPT 764 for further credit.
This course will cover the fundamentals and recent advances in computer communication networks. The  emphasis will be on the design and analysis of networks, especially switching, routing, and network topology.
Advanced topics in the field of scientific and information visualization are presented. Topics may include: an introduction to visualization (importance, basic approaches and existing tools), abstract visualization concepts, human perception, visualization methodology, 2D and 3D display and interaction and their use in medical, scientific, and business applications. Prerequisite: CMPT 316, 461 or equivalent (by permission of instructor). Students who have taken CMPT 878 or 775 may not take this course for further credit.
Introduces the fundamentals of digital audio signal processing, with applications to computer music and sound analysis/synthesis. Students who have taken CMPT 468 cannot take this course for additional credit.
Investigates the design and operation of the global network of networks: the Internet. This course studies the structure of the Internet and the TCP/IP protocol suit that enables it to scale to millions of hosts. The focus is on design principles, performance modeling, and services offered by the Internet.
This course provides an overview of a number of research areas in human-computer interaction. Topics may include: overview of HCI (historical/intellectual, GUI, case studies), interactive systems (design, evaluation, software development), interaction methods (vision, graphic design, touch, speech, etc.), human factors (information processing, capabilities), research frontiers (computer supported co-operative work, intelligent systems, hypertext, multimedia, virtual reality, cyberspace). Recommended:  CMPT 363 or equivalent (instructor discretion).  Students who have taken CMPT 873 may not take this course for further credit.
The goal of formal verification is to prove correctness or to find mistakes in software and other systems. This course introduces, at an accessible level, a formal framework for symbolic model checking, one of the most important verification methods. The techniques are illustrated with examples of verification of reactive systems and communication protocols. Students learn to work with a model checking tool such as NuSMV.
Covers the fundamentals of technical communications and IT project management such as principles of technical communication, technical writing process and strategies, reports and business correspondence, project estimation and planning, project tracking and quality management, and project teamwork.
This course covers recent developments in discrete, combinatorial, and algorithmic geometry. Emphasis is placed on both developing general geometric techniques and solving specific problems. Open problems and applications will be discussed.
Algorithm design often stresses universal approaches for general problem instances. If the instances possess a special structure, more efficient algorithms are possible. This course will examine graphs and networks with special structure, such as chordal, interval, and permutation graphs, which allows the development of efficient algorithms for hard computational problems.
This course will cover a variety of optimization models, that naturally arise in the area of management science and operations research, which can be formulated as mathematical programming problems.
This course investigates the design, classification, modelling, analysis, and efficient use of communication networks such as telephone networks, interconnection networks in parallel processing systems, and special-purpose networks.
This seminar course covers current research in the field of multimedia computing. Topics include multimedia data representation, compression, retrieval, network communications and multimedia systems. Computing science graduate student or permission of instructor.
This course discusses issues and research results pertinent to robot vision. Topics include depth recovery for robot navigation, three dimensional object recognition and scene analysis, model-based approaches, parallel vision machines and algorithms, and case studies of contemporary robot vision systems.
A seminar based on the artificial intelligence approach to vision. Computational vision has the goal of discovering the algorithms and heuristics which allow a two dimensional array of light intensities to be interpreted as a three dimensional scene. By reading and discussing research papers - starting with the original work on the analysis of line drawings, and ending with the most recent work in the field - participants begin to develop a general overview of computational vision, and an understanding of the current research problems.
This course surveys current research in formal aspects of knowledge representation. Topics covered in the course will centre on various features and characteristics of encodings of knowledge, including incomplete knowledge, non monotonic reasoning, inexact and imprecise reasoning, meta-reasoning, etc.   Suggested preparation: a course in formal logic and a previous course in artificial intelligence.
In this course, theoretical and applied issues related to the development of natural language processing systems and specific applications are examined. Investigations into parsing issues, different computational linguistic formalisms, natural language syntax, semantics, and discourse related phenomena will be considered and an actual natural language processor will be developed.
This course covers topics shared both by AI and cognitive science. Current AI research papers are examined from the perspective of cognitive science, and vice versa. Topics covered in a given term will vary, depending upon the instructor, but most of the following topics will be addressed in any given term: connectionist models of intelligence; 'human-like' automated deduction; reasoning by analogy; topics in natural language; automated concept learning; and computational approaches to semantics. Prerequisite: at least one graduate or undergraduate AI course, or instructor's permission.
Intelligent systems are knowledge-based computer programs which emulate the reasoning abilities of human experts. This introductory course will analyze the underlying artificial intelligence methodology and survey advances in rule-based systems, constraint solving, incremental reasoning, intelligent backtracking and heuristic local search methods. We will look specifically at research applications in intelligent scheduling, configuration and planning. The course is intended for graduate students with a reasonable background in symbolic programming.
Explores current research in the field of imaging, computer vision, and smart cameras that aims at identifying, eliminating, and re-lighting the effects of illumination in natural scenes. One salient direction in this research is the identification and elimination of shadows in imagery. The topics touched on in the endeavour include physics-based image understanding, image processing, and information theory. Students in vision and in graphics should be interested in the material in this course.
Examination of recent literature and problems in bioinformatics. Within the CIHR graduate bioinformatics training program, this course will be offered alternatively as the problem-based learning course and the advanced graduate seminar in bioinformatics (both concurrent with MBB 829). Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Transactions, recoverability, serializability theory, schedulers, locking, timestamping, optimistic schedulers, multiversion database systems; recovery, commit protocols, termination protocols; replicated database systems, quorum based concurrency control; distributed snapshot taking, distributed deadlock detection, reliable storage systems; concurrency control in object oriented database systems.
An advanced course on database systems which focuses on data mining and data warehousing, including their principles, designs, implementations, and applications. It may cover some additional topics on advanced database system concepts, including deductive and object-oriented database systems, spatial and multimedia databases, and database-oriented Web technology.
This course links two fields that traditionally have been considered two separate entities: computer architecture and integrated circuit design. The vehicle used to demonstrate the interaction of layout issues and architectural concepts is metal oxide semiconductor technology.
This course aims to give students experience to emerging important areas of computing science. Prerequisite: instructor discretion.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Examines current research topics in computer graphics, human computer interaction (including audio), computer vision and visualization.
No description available
No description available
Students will complete an extended essay required by the SFU-ZU graduate dual degree master program. The extended essay will normally be a report on a research/industry project or a survey on a specific topic in information technology. The topic and the scope of each essay will be determined in consultation with the supervisory committee.
Required for students registered in the MSc course option. Students may only register for this course during the semester in which he/she registers for his/her 10th course.
No description available
No description available
No description available
This course provides a basic integrative overview of how cognitive science aspires to integrate the empirical findings, theories, and methods of psychology, neuroscience, linguistics, computing science and philosophy. Prerequisite: Open to all students. Students with credit for COGS 200 may not take COGS 100 for further credit. Breadth-Humanities/Social Sciences/Science.
An introduction to major empirical methods and theoretical frameworks for exploring the mind that examines some of the foundational debates that have fueled investigations over the past fifty years. Taking an interdisciplinary approach, the course illustrates how a convergence of ideas from psychology, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science has led to deep explanations of a range of cognitive science topics. Prerequisite: COGS 100. Students who have taken COGS 200 before 1998 may take this course for further credit.
An interdisciplinary exploration of recent work on some special topic in cognitive science (such as vision, reasoning, connectionism, etc.) Prerequisite: lower division cognitive science course requirements. Students with credit for COGS 400 may not take COGS 300 for further credit.
Explores the topic of consciousness, often called "the last great mystery of science," focusing on current scientific theories and empirical investigations from philosophy, psychology, and neuroscience. Prerequisite: COGS 100 and 200 (or permission of the instructor).
First term of work experience in the Cognitive Science Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: normally 30 units, including COGS 100 and four other courses in the Cognitive Science program, with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Second term of work experience in the Cognitive Science Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of COGS 370 and 45 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Third term of work experience in the Cognitive Science Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of COGS 371 and 60 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Fourth term of work experience in the Cognitive Science Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of COGS 470 and 75 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
An in-depth investigation of a topic in Cognitive Science culminating in a critical literature review and the formulation of a research proposal. Prerequisite: approval of cognitive science steering committee after student has completed a cognitive science major and at least two courses specified under honors in the program calendar entry.
The research proposed in COGS 490 is executed, culminating in the completion of a substantive piece of research. Prerequisite: approval of Cognitive Science steering committee either when student has completed COGS 490 or when student is taking COGS 490.
Topics will include: examination of different terms and concepts commonly used in criminology, such as crime, delinquency, deviance, criminal, victim, rehabilitation and treatment. Criminology as a body of knowledge and as a profession. Position and subject matter of criminology. Relationship between criminology and other academic disciplines. Specificity of criminology. Relationship between theory and practice. History and evolution of criminological thought. Elements of continuity and discontinuity between classical and modern theories of criminality. Levels of explanations in criminology. Practical applications of criminology. The foundations of a modern criminal policy. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to, and critical examination of, biogenetic, psychiatric, and psychological explanations of criminal and deviant behavior. Special attention will be given to the hypothesized links between criminality and genetics, physiology, the endocrine system, mental disorders, personality, moral development, and other forms of social learning. Recommended: PSYC 100 and 102. Breadth-Social Sciences
A survey of some major sociological perspectives on crime and deviance that will include both mainstream and critical theories. These will include: anomie, neutralization, control, group conflict, sub-cultural, ecological, functionalist and critical theories. Critical analysis of the assumptions upon which each theory is based. Examination of the similarities and differences between/among the various explanations. Recommended: SA 150. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Introductory analysis of the structure and operation of the Canadian criminal justice system. Examination of the patterns of crime and victimization; police operations, discretion and decision making; the criminal courts, including sentencing; the corrections system, including correctional institutions and community-based models; the youth justice system. Patterns of contact and conflict between various social groups and the criminal justice system. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A general introduction to the fundamental and competing principles of jurisprudence and to the basic legal institutions of Canada. Prepares students for those law and law related courses offered within the School of Criminology and will consider the history of Canadian law, the development of the Canadian constitution, the system of Canadian courts and the roles and responsibilities of members of the legal profession. In addition, the course will consider the nature of legal reasoning, the doctrine of precedent, principles of statutory interpretation and will also introduce the fields of contract, torts, administrative law, and family law. Also examines the process of law reform in Canada. Breadth-Social Sciences.
First term of work experience in the Criminology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: 30 units (at least fifteen completed at Simon Fraser University) including CRIM 101, 220, 131, 135 and one of PSYC 210, STAT 101 or 203, with a cumulative grade point average of not less than 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-op co-ordinator one term in advance.
Historical review of society's reaction to crime and deviance, relating this history to religious, political, social and philosophical movements and schools of thought. Consideration of the history and evolution of punishment and penal methods and the historical forces influencing the development, implementation, and modification of these methods. Prerequisite: any 100 division CRIM course.
An analysis of the definition and control of youthful misconduct in an historical and contemporary context. Attention is focused upon: the social construction of 'juvenile delinquency', the decline of the concept, and the emergence of the concept of the 'young offender'; the Young Offenders Act and related legislation; the growth of the welfare state and the role of social workers in 'policing' youth and families; explanations for the criminal behavior of young persons; state and private sector programs designed to deal with such behavior. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 131.
This course offers an historical and analytical overview of women and crime, taking into account the role of gender in both criminality and social responses to crime. Specific emphasis will be given to feminist theories. Attention will focus on the specific crimes and patterns of control and punishment. Prerequisite: any 100 division CRIM course.
An introduction to criminological research that is intended to develop the student's research and analytical skills. Specifically, the course will focus on the theory of inquiry, the logic, and structure of criminological inquiry, research design, data gathering, analysis and reporting. Students with credit for CRIM 120 may not take CRIM 220 for further credit. Recommended: any 100 division CRIM course. Quantitative.
Nature, purpose, scope, sources and basic principles of the criminal law. Study of certain fundamental legal concepts such as mens rea, negligence and strict liability. Analysis of the concept of criminal responsibility in Canada. Critical examination of the legislative policies expressed in the Criminal Code. Study of the basic elements of a criminal offence. Examination of the legal principles relating to certain specific crimes and to certain major defences. Impact of Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms on the criminal law. Prerequisite: CRIM 135.
A critical examination and evaluation of the judicial process. An introduction to the criminal courts and the legal profession. The structure and functions of the criminal court system and its relationship to other branches of government. The role of the criminal court judge, prosecutor, lawyer, jury, witness, expert, etc. Appointment, tenure, removal of judges; the social psychology of the courts; the jury system; plea bargaining; judicial behavior of the courts; the courts and the community; public opinion, attitudes and images of the courts; the mass media and the courts. Prerequisite: CRIM 131. Recommended: CRIM 135.
An examination of the organization, structure and operation of contemporary Canadian corrections. A consideration of the history and development of provincial and federal correctional systems. The role of sentencing in the correctional process and alternatives to confinement. Discussion of the social organization of correctional institutions, including the inmates, correctional officers, correctional treatment staff and administrators. Parole board decision making and the issues surrounding the re-entry of offenders into the community. Community-based corrections programs and outcomes. Prerequisite: CRIM 131.
An examination of the organization and operation of contemporary Canadian policing. Consideration of the history and development of policing in Canada, the role of the police in Canadian society and the police occupation, including recruitment and training. Discussion of police decision making and the exercise of discretion, police powers, and structures of accountability. Managing the police organization. Examination of police-community relations and crime prevention initiatives. Prerequisite: CRIM 131. Students with credit for CRIM 151 may not take CRIM 251 for further credit.
Second term of work experience in the Criminology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of CRIM 161 and 45 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
A detailed examination of current theories and perspectives in criminology. The content of the course will change with developments in the area. Students can expect to study biological, psychological and sociological theories and perspectives, as well as those from other relevant disciplines and fields of inquiry (e.g. geography, political science and cultural studies). Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Writing.
Contemporary issues, problems and themes pertinent to the field of criminology. Development, character and function of criminology as an academic and professional discipline. Status of criminology in the Canadian context. Selected issues of the study of crime, law and justice which will vary depending on instructor. This course may not be taken by students who are majoring or minoring in Criminology. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Critique of positivist and administrative criminology. Influence of race, class and gender on crime. Marxist, feminist and postmodernist criminology. Analysis of differential responses to street, corporate and state crime. Comparison of conservative and progressive criminal justice policy. The political commitment of the criminologist. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Examines some of the more complex contemporary issues relating to young offenders and justice. For any given term, the content of the course will reflect current controversies as well as faculty and student interests. Topics may include social control theory and juvenile justice; an assessment of theories of rehabilitation; the legal philosophy of the young offenders legislation and its Impact on juvenile justice; and an evaluation of diversion, deinstitutionalization and de-legalization in Canada and the United States. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
An analysis of political, economic, and ethnic minorities and their relationship with the criminal justice system. Critical analysis of possible discordance, disharmony or conflict between ethnic and racial minorities such as Native Indians, Inuit, Metis, Doukhobor and others and the legal and social norms of the 'host' majority. Women and the criminal justice system. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Involves detailed study of forms of deviance that have been commonly defined as constituting 'social problems.' Consideration of drug abuse (alcohol, nicotine, heroin and others), suicide, prostitution, obscenity, gambling and abortion. Justifications for present legislative policy and the relationship between these activities and the criminal justice system. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Critical analysis of a specific type of crime with particular emphasis on the nature, the incidence, correlates, control and prevention. Special attention may be given to white collar crime, computer crime, organized crime, violent crimes, political crimes, sexual offence, professional crimes, morality crime, etc. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Critical examination of the impact of psychiatry and related clinical professions on the criminal justice system. Relationship between institutions of mental health and legal control. The relevance of psychiatric theory and decision-making for the processing of mentally disordered offenders. The role of forensic clinicians in the courts, prisons, mental hospitals and related agencies. Specific issues addressed in this course will include psychiatric assessment, criminal responsibility, fitness to stand trial, prediction of dangerousness, treatment of mentally ill criminals and the penal and therapeutic commitment of the insane. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 131.
An examination and analysis of the principles, assumptions, key concepts and applications of restorative (Transformative) justice. The course will contrast restorative justice with the dominant retributive/punitive model of justice and provide an introduction to a variety of both established and emerging expressions of restorative justice including, victim/offender reconciliation programs, family/group conferencing and circle remedies. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Provides an overview of current theoretical, clinical, and legal issues related to sexual offenders and sexual offences. For each of these issues, consideration will be given to different approaches and perspectives, and debates characterizing them. The topics to be covered include: explanatory models of sexual offending; developmental risk factors of sexual offending; typologies of sexual offenders; criminal careers of sexual offenders; phallometric assessment; actuarial and clinical risk assessment; treatment programs and their effectiveness, and criminal justice system initiatives. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 103. Students who have taken CRIM 417 in Spring or Summer 2005 may not take this course for further credit.
Examines the history of prostitution; research on sex sellers, sex buyers, and managers; theories of prostitution; models of prostitution law; the history of prostitution law and its enforcement; the findings and recommendations of various Committees, Commissions and Task Forces examining prostitution in Canada. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students who have taken CRIM 313 (Specific Types of Crime) prior to Summer 2007 may not take this course for further credit.
A critical analysis of specific areas of criminology or criminal justice. The subjects covered will change from term to term depending on the specific interests of faculty, or students and current issues in criminology. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
A critical analysis of specific areas of criminology or criminal justice. The subjects covered will change from term to term depending on the specific interests of faculty, or students and current issues in criminology. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
A detailed examination of the quantitative research methods and techniques most frequently used in criminological research. Advantages and shortcomings of each method and the appropriateness of each technique for criminological research. Problems of pure and applied research. Specific issues of interdisciplinary research. Critical evaluation of the quantitative methods used in certain major criminological studies. Prerequisite: CRIM 101; one of CRIM 120 or 220. CRIM 320 may be taken concurrently with CRIM 321. Quantitative.
A detailed examination and application of qualitative research methods and techniques most frequently used in criminological research. Advantages and disadvantages of each method and the appropriateness of each technique for criminological research. Ethics of criminological research. Specific issues of interdisciplinary research. Critical evaluation of qualitative methods used in certain major criminological studies. Prerequisite: CRIM 101; one of CRIM 120 or 220. This course may be taken concurrently with CRIM 320.
Critical examination of selected topics in criminal procedure and evidence, including jurisdiction, police powers of search and seizure, the right to counsel and pre-trial and trial procedures. Brief survey of the system of rules and standards by means of which the admissibility of evidence is determined. Close examination of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and its impact on criminal procedure and evidence. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 230.
An extension of CRIM 230, this course will examine Canadian criminal law in greater depth as well as in comparison with other jurisdictions. Each term several substantive areas will be analysed closely. The areas to be examined will be determined by student interest but may include sexual offences, public order offences, mental disorder and the criminal process, property offences, etc. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 230.
Introduction to the theory of sociology of law. Law and social structure. Law as a product of a social system and as an instrument of social change. Social functions of the law. Relationship between law and the structure and function of various other social institutions. The process of law-making. Process by which various interests become translated into legal rules. The social reality of the law; the law in action. Social sciences findings into the operation and practice of the law. Critical and feminist perspectives on law. Public knowledge, awareness, opinions and attitudes to the law, sanctions and the criminal justice system. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 135.
A consideration of the relationship of women and men to the State, law and society. Analysis of concepts such as patriarchal relations, criminalization, racism and sexuality, using feminist and masculinity theories. Prerequisite: CRIM 101; 135.   Recommended: CRIM 213.
Overview of theoretical perspectives and available research on debates linked with human reproduction. Reconsideration of the effects of legislation, social policy and social change on contraception, birth, abortion, adoption, eugenics policies, new reproductive technologies, sexualities, and other topics. Historical and contemporary examples will be used. Feminist perspectives will be featured along with other approaches to human reproduction. Prerequisite: this course is identical to GSWS 334 (or  WS 334) and students may not take both courses for credit. Students who have taken CRIM 416, 417, 418 under the title Law and Reproduction may not take this course for further credit.
A study of the relationship between the government and the individual. Focus upon the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and its interpretation by the judiciary. Examination of the issues of equality before the law, freedom of speech, freedom of religion and freedom of expression. A study of human rights at the international, federal and provincial levels. Prerequisite: CRIM 330.
An examination and analysis of the nature, scope and impact of corporate crime, the principal organizational, social, political and economic factors involved in the definition and commission of such crime, and the ways in which governments and organizations respond to the problem. Particular types of corporate crime will be used as vehicles for exploring the legal and administrative framework that defines and regulates corporate wrongdoing. Prerequisite: CRIM 101; 135. Recommended: CNS 280 or ECON 101.
Introduction to the philosophy of law. Concepts of law, constitution and sovereignty. The nature and sources of the law. Examination of natural law, legal positivism, Kelsen's pure theory of law, legal realism, modern normative and analytical theories, critical legal theory and feminist theory. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 135.
Examines alternative approaches to developing and evaluating public policy in criminology through the use of case studies. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 220. Students who have taken CRIM 415 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
An in-depth consideration of a range of factors influencing contemporary correctional practice. The fundamental tension between the interests of offenders and the requirements of those managing correctional programs; the context provided by underlying theoretical assumptions about correctional practice and by influences such as public perceptions, politics and the economy. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 241.
Examines theories of punishment in Western societies, with a particular emphasis on the 'revisionist' literature i.e. that which explains punishment techniques in terms of social-structural relationships rather than the rhetoric of reformers. The course also examines competing explanations of the demise of corporal punishment and the ascendence of incarceration at the end of the eighteenth and beginning of the nineteenth century, the advent of various kinds of 'community corrections' through the twentieth century, and changes in punishment and social control with the advent of 'risk society.' Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
In-depth critical assessment of contemporary issues faced by criminologists in relation to correctional operations and programming. Discusses current practices in corrections, including offenders' classification, criminological assessment, management of exceptional offenders and evidence-based programs offered to offenders. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 241.
Techniques of mobilizing community resources for crime prevention. Organizing, implementing and managing citizen efforts to reduce crime. Recruiting citizen assistance, training requirements, establishing and operating citizen organizations, evaluating results. Organizing programs for reducing criminal opportunity, programs for education, employment and recreation. Operating youth services centres, residential programs, crisis intervention and emergency centres. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Examines police accountability including the expected ethical conduct of police, police powers, police decision-making, the exercise of discretion, and the structure of accountability. Specific emphasis on police codes of ethics, core values of police agencies, the function of internal investigations, and the role of civilian review. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 and 251.
Explores the history of the field of environmental criminology and critically examines the theoretical approaches within the field. Special emphasis is placed upon the relationship between crime, fear and the environment, the criminality of place and the decision processes involved in criminal events. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Examines the use and interpretation of physical forensic evidence in court. It will critically examine and evaluate the major forensic sciences used in criminal investigations today, as well as look at the crime scene. Subjects examined will include forensic pathology, odontology, biology, DNA evidence, firearms evidence, toxicology chemistry and questioned documents. Techniques will be illustrated with case studies. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Introduces the methodological principles of analytical procedures and applications relevant to 21st century criminalistics as applied to skeletonized remains. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
An introduction to human anatomy and physiology relevant to the biological aspects of human forensics. Examines different body systems including form, function and development in the human adult and child, and discusses post mortem alteration to anatomical structures in the context of forensic anthropology and pathology. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Third term of work experience in the Criminology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of CRIM 261 and 60 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Immediate ethical issues confronting the professional in the criminal justice system are examined. Such concerns include privileged communications and confidentiality in fields and research situations; the conflict between the professional's duty to protect society and her/his duty to the client; ethics of decision-making; research ethics; situation ethics; professional ethical codes and legal constraints on professional conduct. Different modes of personal interaction in selected parts of the criminal justice system are examined and taught. Mixed problems of skill and ethics are explored in controlled laboratory settings. Prerequisite: CRIM 101; reserved for criminology majors and honors. This course is a prerequisite for CRIM 462. Completion of this course does not guarantee admission to field practice.
Independent readings in a selected field of study, under the direction of a single faculty member. Papers will be required. Prerequisite: CRIM 320 and 330, and written application to the school no later than the last day of classes of the preceding term. CRIM 370 and 470 may not be taken concurrently.
Explores legal, technical and social issues in cybercrime. Discusses the nature of cybercrime, with specific examples, and methods of regulation in Canada and worldwide. Addresses origins and extent of cybercrime, responses from the legal system and consideration of the wider effects for society. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students who have taken CRIM 318 under this topic (Fall 2009 or Spring 2010) may not take this course for further credit.
Questions of crime and criminal justice in novels and other forms of fiction are explored. Includes a critical discussion about crime plots, their social settings and outcomes, the psychology and sociology of criminal characters and their victims, and whether justice was achieved or denied in the course of the plot. Writing intensive. Prerequisite: students who have taken CRIM 416 or 417 or 418 as Crime and Literature or ENGL 384 may not take this course for further credit.
Examines possible biological factors that could result in a predisposition towards criminal behavior. These include not only the genetic factors that affect behavior and therefore could potentially predispose towards crime, but also biochemical, neurological, nutritive and accidental effects such as head injuries. This course will look critically at all evidence both for and against any possible biological predispositions for criminogenic behaviors, together with the interaction with the environment. In particular, moral and ethical issues will be considered and debated. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students with credit for CRIM 416 in the summer 2000 or 2001 term may not take CRIM 402 for further credit.
Examination of the factors which influence decision making in the criminal justice system. The exercise of discretion by criminal justice personnel; the role of organizational policies and priorities in decision making; the involvement of victims and the public. Consideration of decision making at specific stages of the criminal justice process. Prerequisite: CRIM 131.
Focus is upon the relationship among the content of media, especially books, films and TV. There will be an examination of the type and frequency of crimes associated with displays in the media, either coincidentally or causally, and the perception by and impact upon the public of such relationships (physically and psychologically). In addition, there will be an examination of the nature of political efforts by members of the public to alter this inferred relationship through law enforcement and legislative measures. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Considers the nature, extent, and basis of terrorism as an official crime throughout the world and its impact upon criminal justice systems. Theoretical explanations in a comparative perspective will be employed to examine the impact of terrorism on various countries and the response of governments to it. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
A critical analysis of specific areas of criminology or criminal justice. The subjects covered will change from term to term depending on the specific interests of facuty, or students and current issues in criminology. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
A critical analysis of certain 'hot' issues in criminology and criminal justice. The topics covered change from term to term. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. A student may not take for credit toward the degree more than three special topics courses (i.e. CRIM 416, 417 418).
A critical analysis of certain 'hot' issues in criminology and criminal justice. The topics covered change from term to term. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. A student may not take for credit toward the degree more than three special topics courses (i.e. CRIM 416, 417 418).
A critical analysis of certain 'hot' issues in criminology and criminal justice. The topics covered change from term to term. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. A student may not take for credit toward the degree more than three special topics courses (i.e. CRIM 416, 417 418).
An in-depth examination of Aboriginal/indigenous conceptions of justice in dealing with crime and other trouble in indigenous communities, and in relations among peoples. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 or FNST 101 or 201 or permission of the instructor. Students who took this course as CRIM 416 or 418 may not take this course for further credit. Students who take FNST 419 cannot take CRIM 419 for further credit.
An examination of how relations between indigenous and non-indigenous peoples framed and were framed by the development of international law from the 15th century onward. Prerequisite: CRIM 101 or FNST 101 or 201 or permission of instructor. Students who have taken this course under CRIM 416, or 418 under the title "Indigenous Peoples and International Law" or "Indigenous Peoples and Evolving International Relations" may not take this course for further credit. Students may not take FNST 429 for further credit.
The gendered nature of law will be addressed through an examination of its underlying factual assumptions, and the use of social science research as evidence in equality litigation. The use of the charter, human rights legislation, and other legal means to achieve gender equality through the legal system in the areas of work, employment and pay equity, and compensatory schemes for personal injuries will also be examined. This course will also examine women's struggles to gain admittance to the legal profession, and the barriers which may still prevent them from participating equally in the profession today. Prerequisite: CRIM 330.
Examines communities and neighborhoods as contexts for thinking about a wide range of criminological issues including crime, fear, victimization, policing, and policy. Theoretical explanations and applied research will be used to expore how and why &quot;community&quot; is important for understanding crime and criminal justice. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students who have taken this course as CRIM 418 may not take this course for further credit.
A detailed examination and analysis of particular types of corporate wrongdoing and the nature and impact of the relevant legal and administrative framework. The topics will be selected by the particular course instructor and will, therefore, vary according to the instructor's interests as well as topicality. The areas of corporate crime which are chosen may include one or more of the following: 'economic crimes' such as violations of statutes which regulate competition, protect intellectual property, and safeguard stock market investors; crimes against the environment such as air and water pollution; and, crimes against consumers including the marketing of hazardous products, contaminated food, or dangerous drugs and devices. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 336.
Examines the use of self regulation by professional organizations (e.g. law societies, colleges of physicians and surgeons, stock exchanges) and the increasing demand by other occupational groups and social and economic entities to be governed by these internal controls in addition to, or in lieu of, the criminal and other state law. It will specifically examine how the criminal law is used in the context of self-regulation and how professionals can bypass the criminal law through self-regulating organizations. The professions will be examined in the context of administrative, civil and criminal law. Implications for self regulation in other areas and the future of self-regulation will also be considered. Prerequisite: CRIM 330.
Examines the issues of wrongful convictions and other miscarriages of justice. Considers the major factors that contribute to wrongful convictions despite the safeguards built into the system, and ways to prevent or reduce their number. Prerequisite: CRIM 330 is recommended. Students who have taken CRIM 417 under this title (Fall 2007 or Fall 2008) may not take this course for further credit.
Theory and practice of organization and administration of correctional agencies. Particular attention is given to the political/bureaucratic interface in correctional administration, management styles, labour relations, management support systems and program planning. Identification and assessment of corrections management objectives. The relationship between corrections administration and other components of the criminal justice system. Prerequisite: CRIM 101; 131 and 241. Recommended: POL 251.
An in-depth examination of the various community-based and institutional practices in promoting restorative processes, based on an examination and comparison of the values, philosophical approaches and outcomes of selected western and non-western models. Practices examined will include a range of restorative justice initiatives, including victim-offender mediation, family-group conferencing, multi-party mediation, and various circle remedies. This examination will include the application of restorative justice in the community, in schools and at all levels of the legal process (pre-arrest to post-incarceration and reintegration). Recommended: CRIM 315 and 343.
Introduction to the modern techniques of crime prevention. Emphasis will be on crime prevention and reduction in fear of crime. Crime prevention through social change. Crime prevention through environmental design. Crime prevention through physical planning and architectural design. The concept of 'defensible space.' Obstructing and reducing the opportunities for the commission of crimes. Evaluating crime prevention programs. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Looks at the advanced and sometimes more controversial areas of forensic science used in the criminal justice system today. Most areas are those outside the crime lab and require extensive and in-depth training in a very focused field. Seminars may cover areas such as the use of polygraph, blood spatter pattern analysis, entomology, pathology, odontology, anthropology, genocide investigation, facial approximation, crime scene analysis on land, underwater and mass homicide scenarios. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students with credit for CRIM 420 in 01-3, 00-3, 99-3, 98-3 or 97-3 may not take CRIM 451 for further credit. Recommended: CRIM 355.
The examination of disease processes which affect and reveal themselves in the human skeleton at the level of surface morphology, radiology and histology and other relevant analytical methodologies relevant to criminalistics and human identification. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 357. Students who have taken this course as CRIM 417 may not take this course for further credit.
Provides an overview of the theoretical, analytical, and ethical issues related to drug law enforcement. Examines the strategies used by the police in responding to the challenges posed by illegal drug markets. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Provides an overview of the advanced issues relating to the scientific study, development and evaluation of criminal profiling. Outlines the criminological and psychological principles upon which criminal profiling is based, including classification of violent behaviour, behavioural change and consistency. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Covers the major issues surrounding policing in the 21st century. The topics to be examined will include the challenges confronting police services in a global community; police leadership; recruiting and training of police officers; the planning and delivery of police services; models of deployment; policing the multi-cultural society; use of force by police officers; the effectiveness of police interventions; the use of technology in police work; and community policing. Prerequisite: CRIM 101, 131 and 251.
Advanced issues relating to the empirical and scientific study of investigative psychology in policing. Outlines the main applications of investigative psychology, including police interrogation techniques, confession, false allegation, lie detection, crisis negotiation, risks and threats assessment, and psychological autopsies. Prerequisite: CRIM 101.
Examines data handling, data quality and analysis of various criminal justice system information sources common to police services, government agencies and academic researchers. Develops skills in tactical, strategic and administrative crime analysis functionality. Recommended: CRIM 352. Students who have taken CRIM 418 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Examines the theory and models of contemporary community policing in Canada. Explores crime prevention, crime response, problem-oriented policing, the definition of community, and the role and responsibility of the community. Prerequisite: CRIM 251.
Examines the many forms of organized crime, including theories and models. Explores specific activities involving organized criminals, traditional organized crime, street gangs and motorcycle gangs, and criminal justice responses to organized crime. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students who have taken CRIM 416 in  Spring 2009 or CRIM 313 in Fall 2009 may not take this course for further credit.
Fourth term of work experience in the Criminology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of CRIM 361 and 75 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Supervised three month field practicum in selected criminal justice agencies. Students are required to complete a series of reports addressing theoretical and practical issues relating to their placement as well as to attend regular feedback seminar discussions with faculty supervisors and other field practicum students. Prerequisite: prior approval of the school and a minimum CGPA of 2.5 is required. Applicants must be formal criminology majors or honors students, and must be enrolled in or have completed CRIM 320, 321 and 369. In extraordinary circumstances, students may be accepted with CRIM 320 or CRIM 321, with the approval of the field practice co-ordinator. A minimum grade of B- in CRIM 369 is required. Only under exceptional circumstances, to a limit of three units, and with the formal written approval of the director of the undergraduate program, will enrolment for course work in addition to CRIM 462 be permitted.
Considers the study of crime from an economic perspective and the relationship between crime and the economy. Theoretical frameworks and empirical examples from both economic and criminology will be discussed. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Students who have taken CRIM 414, 415, 416, 417 or 418 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Independent research in a selected criminological area, under the direction and supervision of at least one faculty member. A research report is required. Prerequisite: CRIM 320, 321 and 330. Written application to the school no later than the last day of classes of the preceding term. Reserved for criminology honors and majors. Recommended: CRIM 370.
Advanced exploration of high-tech crime and exploration of the tools and techiques used by cyber-criminals.  Examines the techniques used by law enforcement to investigate and prosecute offenders, as well as the probable future development of cybercrime.  Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 380. Students who have taken CRIM 416/417/418 in Spring 2010 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Analysis of complex, emerging and current cyber-security threats. Discusses methods used to identify cybercrime threats and vulnerabilities, as well as the social, economic and legal implications. Insight into creating an effective defensive plan, and an understanding of future security trends and threats which are likely to develop. Prerequisite: CRIM 101. Recommended: CRIM 380. Students who have taken CRIM 416/417/418 under this topic in Spring 2010 may not take this course for further credit.
An in-depth investigation of a selected topic in criminology, including a comprehensive review of the literature as well as initial and partial completion of the thesis research. Open only to students who have been admitted to the criminology honors program.
A detailed and comprehensive examination of the dominant theoretical research programs currently found in criminology. The subject matter of the seminars may change from year to year according to topicality and may include the following: biological theory and research; social psychological research programs (e.g., social learning theory); environmental criminology; left realism; feminism; post structuralism and post modernism. Students are also required to attend a weekly pro-seminar. Prerequisite: normally open only to students who have been admitted to the criminology honors program. Other students may be admitted under exceptional circumstances with the written permission of the director of undergraduate programs.
An honors thesis is a research report written under the supervision of a faculty member, a copy of which is to be permanently lodged in the School of Criminology. Students are required to attend a weekly seminar at which various issues associated with the linking of theory and method are examined and where students can both discuss their progress and share their research experiences. On completion, the thesis is to be orally defended in a school seminar. Open only to students who have been admitted to the criminology honors program. Students are not permitted to take other courses while enrolled in this course. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of B in CRIM 490 and 491 is required.
A comprehensive overview of theories and the development of theoretical knowledge in criminology. This seminar will familiarize students with competing levels of understanding vis--vis crime and deviance phenomena. The course will emphasize the integration of historical and contemporary theory, theory construction and testing, and the impact of factors such as ideology, politics and social structure on the emergence of criminological thought.
Intensive exposure to the major streams of criminological theory. Topics for in-depth analysis will be selected according to the availability and interest of specific course instructors. Emphasis will be placed on the relationship between ideas and social forces, as well as the interplay of theory and practice.
Designed for the beginning graduate student, this course covers a wide variety of topics all of which deal with what we know about the phenomena of crime historically, temporally and geographically. This course will look at the patterns of crime and victimization, and will explore crime patterns at local, provincial, national and international levels. Known characteristics of specific forms of crime will be studied.
Topics for in-depth analysis will be selected according to the availability and interest of specific course instructors and selected from but not limited to one or more of the following topics: historical criminology; the ecology of crime; environmental criminology; the media and crime; fear of crime; victimization; organized crime; or corporate crime.
Examines the social environment of offenders through a criminal network perspective. Emphasizes how analyzing delinquency through the lens of networks can make theoretical and empiracal contributions to the field.
An introduction to policy analysis in the field of criminal justice, beginning with frames of reference for policy-making such as the market, welfare economics, equity, efficiency, and liberty. Through applied examples, students will define policy problems, identify goals and objectives, devise alternative solutions, predict the effects of these alternatives, and communicate advice to decision-makers.
The course will emphasize the systems approach in criminal justice problem analysis, policy development and planning. Program evaluation techniques will be applied to the major types of planning and program initiatives taken within or across criminal justice systems. Topics for in-depth analysis will be selected according to the availability and interest of specific course instructors and may be selected from any area of criminal justice practice including: law enforcement; the judiciary; court administration; corrections; or legal services.
An examination of the role in both defining and responding to crime and its related social, economic and environmental contexts. A detailed analysis and empirical study of the impacts of law in specific circumstances, the utility of legal interventions, and the logic and utility of definitions of crime.
Topics for detailed analysis will be selected from but not limited to one or more of the following themes: theoretical and empirical perspectives on law and mental health; law and the environment; corporate crime; law and gender; sexual violence; policing; and drug law.
The course will cover basic research design for criminological problems and basic techniques for the conduct of research in criminology and socio-legal study. The research methods covered will comprise both quantitative and qualitative techniques. The course is intended to establish fundamental research skills to be applied in advanced research methods seminars, in other core area courses, and in the preparation of theses and dissertations.
This course covers both parametric and non-parametric statistical techniques with an emphasis on parametric analysis. Basic descriptive and inferential statistics will be covered, including univariate measures, analyses of cross classified data, correlation, t-tests, analysis of variance, regression, and related measures. Also discussed are the experimental and statistical research strategies which produce those data. The approach will be conceptual and will emphasize the strengths, weaknesses, selection and application of various statistical, experimental and quasi-experimental techniques.
This course will address a range of research techniques generally subsumed under the rubric of 'qualitative' research including field research, interview techniques, historical and legal research, and documentary analysis. Emphasis will be on the logic underlying such inquiry, the advantages and limitations associated with different sources of information and procedures, and the processes by which analytical rigor is achieved.
Advanced topics, issues and techniques in criminological and socio-legal research. The subject matter of this course will vary according to instructor interests and specialization. Specific areas of concentration may include the following: advanced multivariate statistical techniques, documentary and historical methods, evaluative and predictive research, participant observation/ethnography, systems analysis, and computer simulation modelling. Prerequisite: CRIM 860, 861, 862, or by permission of the instructor.
Advanced topics, issues and techniques in qualitative research methods in criminological and socio-legal research. Subject matter will vary according to instructor interests and specialization. Specific areas of concentration may include: field research; participatory action research; qualitative research and the digital revolution; research ethics; historical methods.
Advanced topics, issues and techniques in program evaluation in criminological and socio-legal research. The specific subject matter will vary according to instructor interests and specialization. Specific areas of concentration may include: program theory; process analysis; impact detection; cost-benefit analysis; policy-program linkage. Prerequisite: CRIM 860 or permission of instructor.
This course is designed for students entering a field practicum placement via CRIM 880 and is a required component of the MA by Coursework, Project and Practicum option. It introduces the student to the legal and ethical issues relevant to professionalism and leadership in the field of Criminology. Related professional roles and functions are examined. The course integrates theory and practice from a case study perspective.
Intensive readings under the supervision of a faculty member, in areas of interest related to the student's program.
Concentrated studies in areas of student specialization.
Concentrated studies in areas of student specialization.
Concentrated studies in areas of student specialization.
A term of full-time advanced and intensive practicum experience supervised by selected faculty and justice system personnel. Students will assume a large measure of responsibility and participate in a range of activities related to the placement. Prerequisite: CRIM 869.
MA by coursework, project and practicum paper. Prerequisite: CRIM 869.
No description available
No description available
A critical introduction to various approaches to development and sustainability. Examines the impacts of major drivers of environmental change caused by development processes, and offers selected case studies from around the world illustrating policy and practical challenges to implementing sustainable development measures at various scales.
An in-depth critical examination of contemporary challenges to effective governance for sustainable development within the context of global north-south relations. Assesses the prospects for sustainable solutions in relation to selected problem-solving thematic areas and case studies at various scales involving student-led dialogues. Prerequisite:    60 units.  Students with credit for ENV 401 may not complete this course for further credit.
A multidisciplinary survey of the issues that confront scholars and practitioners in development and sustainability, the major theories and concepts, and the methods used to analyze and interpret data, with a focus on historical and contemporary case studies. Prerequisite: Must be enrolled in a graduate program at Simon Fraser University.
The Dialogue component of the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue will immerse students in the art and practice of thinking and communicating. The focus will be on strategies and methods to use in understanding diverse perspectives. Students will have an opportunity to expand their verbal and written communication skills as well as explore dialogue as a developing academic field. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students should apply prior to the term in which they wish to enrol. Students can be accepted into either the Summer Institute in Dialogue (DIAL 390W and 391W, 10 units) or the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue (fall or spring term, DIAL 390W, 391W and 392W, 15 units), but not both. Writing/Breadth-Social Sciences.
Topics covered each term will vary, but generally each course will examine a subject that encourages broad approaches and probes provocative issues. The course will consist of discussions led by faculty, frequent visits from relevant off-campus experts, a heavy reading load, and a number of individual and group student projects. Learning will be active rather than passive, stimulating students to research, explore and discuss rather than following a lecture format. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students should apply prior to the term in which they wish to enrol. Students can be accepted into either the Summer Institute in Dialogue (DIAL 390W and 391W, 10 units) or the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue (fall or spring semester, DIAL 390W, 391W and 392W, 15 units) but not both. Writing/Breadth-Social Sciences.
For their final project, each student will produce a manuscript suitable for submission to a major public media outlet on a topic relevant to the course focus for that term. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students should apply prior to the term in which they wish to enrol. Students can be accepted into either the Summer Institute in Dialogue (DIAL 390W and 391W, 10 units) or the Undergraduate Semester in Dialogue (fall or spring semester, DIAL 390W, 391W and 392W, 15 units), but not both. Writing/Breadth-Social Sciences.
Focuses on the practical tools and conceptual approaches used in dialogue, with comparisons of the role and impact of dialogue among community, government, corporate, union, First Nations, legal-regulatory, advocacy groups and organizations. Emphasis is on interaction among interest groups and stakeholders, cultures of negotiation and decision-making, techniques of facilitation, and strategies for effective outcomes. Prerequisite:    45 units and permission of instructor.  Students with credit for CMNS 460 may not complete this course for further credit
Students work under faculty supervision in a placement where dialogue is planned or where dialogue occurs. Arrangements are the responsibility of the student, and enrolment is limited. Prerequisite:    45 units and permission of instructor.  Students with credit for CMNS 461 may not complete this course for further credit
Business, technological, social and ethical issues and realizations of digital entertainment are introduced and framed. The emergence and ongoing development of the digital entertainment industry is discussed through an historical exploration and critical analysis of the economics, technical innovations, social demands and ethical constraints which define it. Outcomes are exploration and a critical perspective of digital entertainment, which will act as a common basis for all subsequent discussion and collaboration between students with artistic, technical or interdisciplinary backgrounds.
The many facets of storytelling are explored, with an emphasis on the meaningful visualization of creative content. Text and sound are used as the stimulus for development of visual narratives through shape, colour, line, texture and composition. Students cultivate essential art direction skills through photo essays, storyboards, animatics, character design, costume design, lighting design, mise-en-scene and cinematography. Classic texts are re-envisioned to develop a critical analysis of contemporary visual archetypes.
This course provides students with the practical skills to improve collaboration with others, for the end goal of creating successful projects together. From improving their performance in team based scenarios and developing strong presentation skills, to creating stories and characters on the fly, improvisation is an essential skill in a digital media industry that demands increasing flexibility and creativity, relies on innovative minds for its evolution and depends on rapid prototyping and iterative product creation for its survival.
Game design is a seminar and project-based course that teaches the mechanics and processes of game design. The principles learned in this class apply equally well to card games, board games, party games, athletic games and computer games. Students analyze many types of games and design many games of their own, alone and in groups, using these principles.
The financing and exploitation of digital entertainment is examined using actual forms, articles and projects. Different methods of financing and distributing video games, mobile content, theatrical feature films, television projects and series will be examined. The drafting and negotiating of basic entertainment contracts and intellectual property law related to digital entertainment will also be discussed.
Building Virtual Worlds is the first project course. Teams from different backgrounds and disciplines design and implement an artifact in a virtual environment. Student-lead projects have an explicit role in teaching project management and business aspects of team based creations. This hands-on immersion into a group problem solving environment is designed to break down student inhibitions and to foster rapid project planning and prototyping.
Projects II, III and IV cohesively build on the Project I experience with projects of increasing technical, artistic and management sophistication. Projects II, III and IV are independent, semester length group studies based on working with an external client and/or collaborators. Teams of three to eight students work on a dedicated project(s) during that semester. In all four of the Projects courses, students learn, experience and execute the business aspects of team based projects from scoping to the creation of business plans, from on-going project management to final product delivery which is on time and on budget. 
Projects II, III and IV cohesively build on the Project I experience with projects of increasing technical, artistic and management sophistication. Projects II, III and IV are independent, semester length group studies based on working with an external client and/or collaborators. Teams of three to eight students work on a dedicated project(s) during that semester. In all four of the Projects courses, students learn, experience and execute the business aspects of team based projects from scoping to the creation of business plans, from on-going project management to final product delivery which is on time and on budget.
Projects II, III and IV cohesively build on the Project I experience with projects of increasing technical, artistic and management sophistication. Projects II, III and IV are independent, semester length group studies based on working with an external client and/or collaborators. Teams of three to eight students work on a dedicated project(s) during that semester. In all four of the Projects courses, students learn, experience and execute the business aspects of team based projects from scoping to the creation of business plans, from on-going project management to final product delivery which is on time and on budget.
During the summer internship period, students will work full-time in the digital media or entertainment technology industry. This term gives students real-world experience in working to concrete deadlines with a motivated, often multidisciplinary, team. Students learn firsthand the importance of effective communication and cooperation to achieve a specific goal.
No description available
During the summer internship period, students will work full-time in the digital media or entertainment technology industry. This term gives students real-world experience in working to concrete deadlines with a motivated, often multidisciplinary, team. Students learn firsthand the importance of effective communication and cooperation to achieve a specific goal.
An introduction to the origin and character of minerals, rocks, earth structure, earth surface processes and plate tectonic theory. Students with credit for GEOG 112 cannot take this course for further credit. Breadth-Science.
Class Dinosauria and how our understanding of this extinct group continues to evolve in the light of new discoveries. Topics include the rise of the dinosaurs, criteria for the recognition of the different groups, fossil data regarding dinosaur metabolism, evidence of dinosaur behavior, possible evolutionary relationships with birds, and theories of dinosaur extinction. Students may not take EASC 103 for credit towards EASC major or minor program requirements. Breadth-Science.
An introduction to the range of geological hazards that affect the Earth, the environment and humanity. Topics covered will include the hazards and risks related to volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, landslides and avalanches, tsunamis, geomagnetic storms and other potentially cataclysmic events. The forecasting and possible mitigation of these geohazards will also be investigated. Students with credit for GEOG 312 may not take this course for additional credit. Students may not take EASC 104 for credit towards EASC major or minor program requirements. Breadth-Science.
An introduction to the changes that the Earth has experienced, from its initial formation to the present day, intended for non-majors. Topics include changes in plate tectonic style, mountain building periods, glaciations during Earth history, formation of life, the fossil record and evolution, major extinctions, and the rise of man. Students with credit in EASC 102 may not take EASC 106 for additional credit. Students may not take EASC 106 for credit towards EASC major or minor program requirements. Breadth-Science.
An overview of the Earth's major economic resources of the Earth for non-Earth Science majors or minors. Background will be provided on major Earth processes which cause significant natural resources including metallic resources, hydrocarbon and other energy resources, industrial mineral and groundwater resources. Much of the focus will be on the changing nature of how resources have been found and exploited through history and how this may evolve in the near to distant future. Students may not use EASC 107 for credit towards earth sciences major or minor program requirements. Breadth-Science.
An introduction to the geology of our solar system through a comparative survey of the planets. Emphasis will be on the geology of the Earth and how we can use this knowledge to learn more about the neighboring planets. A wealth of accessible information now exists from which we can attempt to reconstruct the geological history of each planetary surface in our solar system. Comparative planetology will be used to explore such topics as the structure and origin of the solar system, the origin and fate of the Earth, the importance of water in the solar system, the formation and geological history of planetary lithospheres and atmospheres. Breadth-Science.
An introduction to the nature, origin and interpretation of stratified earth materials. Principles of lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy and chronostratigraphy, sequence stratigraphy, the facies concept. Prerequisite: EASC 102 or 210.
Introduction to crystallography, crystal chemistry and chemical properties and chemical principles necessary for the study of minerals. Prerequisite: EASC 101 and CHEM 121.
Description, classification and interpretation of earth structures: folds, faults, joints, cleavage and lineations. Elementary rock mechanics. Prerequisite: EASC 102 or 210, and PHYS 125 or 120 or 140, (or PHYS 101 with a grade of B or higher).
Optical phenomena related to the use of the polarizing microscope in the identification of minerals in thin section. Petrogenesis and classification of igneous sedimentary and metamorphic rocks. Hand specimen and thin section identification of rocks and minerals. Prerequisite: EASC 202, CHEM 122, PHYS 121 (or PHYS 102 with a grade of B or higher), and PHYS 131 (or PHYS 130 with a grade of B or higher). PHYS 126 may be substituted for PHYS 121.
Seven days of field excursions to demonstrate the geology of British Columbia. Prerequisite: EASC 101 and prerequisite/corequisite EASC 210.
An introduction to geophysics emphasizing seismic, magnetic and gravimetric observations of the Earth. Applied geophysics. Prerequisite: MATH 152, PHYS 121, 131, all with a grade of C- or higher, or MATH 152, with a grade of C- or higher and PHYS 102, PHYS 130 both with a grade of B or higher. Quantitative.
Distribution and cycles of elements, minerals and rocks on and within Earth. Understanding and evolution of Earth systems through high and low temperature fluid-rock interaction, aqueous geochemistry, stable and radiogenic isotopes. Prerequisite: EASC 202, CHEM 121, 122 and 126. Quantitative.
The study of the evolution of the Earth, the geological time scale, fossils and evolution, stratigraphic concepts, geological history of western Canada. Prerequisite: EASC 101 or GEOG 111. Students with credit for EASC 102 prior to 05-3 may not take this course for credit. Breadth-Science.
An in-depth treatment of selected topics of earth sciences. Prerequisite: to be determined by instructor.
Mineralogy, phase relations, origin of igneous rocks; classification of igneous rocks. Mineralogy and textures of metamorphic rocks; hand sample and thin sections. Prerequisite: EASC 205 and 208.
Description and classification, field and microscopic identification of sedimentary rocks; petrogenesis and paleoenvironmental reconstruction. Prerequisite: STAT 101 or STAT 201, EASC 201 and 205.
Environmental geology is a branch of earth science that deals with the relationship of people to their geological habitat. Topics covered will include environmental impact of mineral extraction and logging; erosion and sedimentation in rural and urban environments; and mass movements in mountainous terrain. The course includes two 1-day field trips that usually occur on Saturdays. Prerequisite: 60 units including six units in Earth Sciences and GEOG 213. Writing.
An introduction to the basic concepts and principles governing the flow of groundwater in the subsurface environment. These are used to develop an understanding of aquifers and their physical properties, groundwater sustainability and management, and interaction of groundwater with surface water. In addition, as a foundation course in fluids in geologic media, this course has relevance to the oil and gas and mining industries, as well as to engineering applications such as dewatering. Prerequisite: EASC 101 and PHYS 102 or 121 or 126 or 141; and 12 additional units in Earth Sciences, physical geography or environmental science. Quantitative.
Implementation of mathematical methods and numerical techniques for problem solving in the Earth Sciences. Examples and lab assignments will use Excel spreadsheets and/or Matlab computer programming/display software. Concepts covered include quantitative techniques for field data and error analysis in the geosciences, basic computer programming concepts and numerical modeling of Earth processes. Prerequisite: EASC 101, MATH 152 (grade of C or higher), PHYS 121 (grade of C or higher), STAT 101 or STAT 201 (grade C or higher), and six units in any 200 division or higher EASC courses.
A 12 day field camp held after final exams in the spring term. Students will learn how to observe, record and interpret geological features, and will carry out geological mapping and analysis. Approximately five 1-hour lectures on field methods, equipment and safety will precede the field camp. Field locations may vary from year to year. Prerequisite or corequisite: EASC 201, 204, 205, 206 and GEOG 213.
Application, instrumentation and limitations of electrical, electromagnetic, ground penetrating radar and seismic methods for engineering and geoscience applications. Prerequisite: EASC 207. Quantitative.
The study of motion and deformation of the earth's crust and upper mantle at a regional and global scale. A detailed examination of plate tectonic theory: plate boundary types, mechanics of plate movements, basin formation and mountain building. Case studies of major orogenic belts of the world highlighting regional structural deformation processes in response to tectonic stresses. Students are required to attend a weekend field trip during this course. Prerequisite: EASC 201, 204, 205, 206 and 207. Students who completed EASC 407 prior to fall 1998 may not take this course for credit.
Principles of classification, morphology and development of the major groups of animals and plants in the geological record; the paleoecologic significance of fossils. Prerequisite: EASC 102 or 210. Recommended: BISC 102. Students with credit for EASC 203 may not take EASC 310 for additional credit. Writing.
The principles of stratigraphy, and their integration with sedimentary facies analysis. Techniques applicable to outcrop and subsurface correlation, as well as the principal stratigraphic paradigms and their application to the rock record are discussed. Prerequisite: EASC 201 and 204. Recommended: EASC 206, 302.
An introduction to the engineering properties and behavior of soil and rock. Laboratory and field measurements of soil and rock properties. Applications in engineering design will be illustrated with case studies of slope stability, road design, foundations and underground excavations. Emphasis will be placed on the importance of soil and rock mechanics in the resources sector. Prerequisite: EASC 101, 204 or permission of instructor.
An introduction to the study of ice in the environment from a geophysical perspective, with attention to glaciers and ice sheets as (1) components of the global climate system, (2) indicators and archives of environmental conditions, (3) agents of catastrophic change, and (4) resources. Topics include the physical and chemical properties of ice, glacier and ice-sheet thermomechanics, dynamics of Greenland and Antarctica, ice cores, subglacial lakes, unstable ice flow, and resource exploitation in glacierized areas. Prerequisite: 60 units, including MATH 152 (with grade C or higher), PHYS 126 or PHYS 121 (with grade of C or higher), and GEOG 213 or permission of the instructor. Quantitative.
Emphasis is on the fundamentals of water-rock interactions and the chemistry of natural waters, developing an understanding of the physical and chemical principles that govern the geochemistry of water within Earth's crust. Topics will include water sample collection and analysis, chemical thermodynamics, gas-water-rock interactions and geochemical modeling. The applications range from weathering and recharge to acid rock drainage and diagenesis. Prerequisite: CHEM 122 and 126. Corequisite/Prerequisite: EASC 304. Students with credit for EASC 412 may not complete this course for further credit.
Application of geophysical methods to the study of the Earth's evolution and its interior structure: geometrical nature of plate tectonics on a sphere; the Earth's magnetic field and its use in reconstruction of past plate motions; earthquake seismology and understanding the deep interior, gravity and lithospheric flexure, radioactive decay and an absolute geological time scale; heat loss and mantle convection; structure of oceanic lithosphere; structure of continental lithosphere; the early Earth and the tectonics of other planets. Prerequisite: EASC 207 or permission of instructor. Quantitative.
An advanced, in-depth treatment of a specialized area of earth sciences. Prerequisite: to be determined by instructor.
The petrology and genesis of metalliferous ore deposits; description of classic ore deposits; the occurrence and exploitation of industrial and non-metallic minerals. Prerequisite: EASC 201, 204, 208 and 301.
Sediment transport in fluids, the formation, character and classification of internal structures in sediments and paleoenvironmental analysis. Prerequisite: EASC 302.
Stratigraphy and history of the Quaternary Period with emphasis on glaciation, glacial sediments, and landforms. The course includes several field trips, including one or two weekend trips. (2-0-3) Prerequisite: EASC 201 and GEOG 213. Recommended: EASC 303 and GEOG 313.
Application of advanced concepts in structural geology to a variety of tectonic problems; deformation mechanisms; flow concepts applied to ductile deformation; description and interpretation of microstructural fabrics; strain partitioning from grain scale to global scale. Prerequisite: EASC 204, 301 and 309.
Applies and integrates concepts from hydrological science to assess the various impacts to water cycles over a range of scales, considering both climate and other environmental stressors. Secondary impacts of climate change on water resources (including water for humans and aquatic ecosystems) are explored, focusing on current issues to generate ideas for potential mitigative and adaptive solutions. Prerequisite: EASC 304, 412, GEOG 311. Recommended: GEOG 411.
An advanced field study course that provides real-world examples of major topics in the earth sciences. The course includes both a classroom component throughout the term and a field component of about 2-3 weeks. The field component is usually held shortly after the spring examination period (generally late April to early May). The field component is an excursion to a variety of field sites that change yearly. Prior to student enrolment, the faculty member, in consultation with the students, will determine the field course location, and determine the mandatory supplementary course fees for that offering. Some offerings of EASC 406 may require overseas travel and possibly a significant change in the timing and cost of the field component. Students should be aware that they must also cover the costs of food and personal items on the field course. Prerequisite: EASC 306 and a minimum of nine other units in upper division earth science courses (or permission of the instructor). Recommended: EASC 309.
The stratigraphy, structure and historical geology of western Canada. Terrane analysis. Important mineral and fossil sites will be discussed. Prerequisite: EASC 309. Students who completed EASC 305 prior to fall 1998 may not take this course for credit.
An introduction to contaminant hydrogeology and mass transport processes in groundwater regimes. Topics include natural groundwater quality, sources of contamination, for example from mine waste, agriculture, saltwater intrusion, and industrial activities, and the processes and principles governing mass transport, including advection, dispersion and diffusion. The course also explores metholologies for site investigation as well as various remediation methods. Prerequisite: EASC 412. Quantitative.
Application and role of Quaternary Geology in terrain mapping and terrain analysis and will emphasize the British Columbia Terrain Classification System. Applications of terrain maps, including landslide, earthquake and volcanic hazard mapping will be discussed. The lab sessions will cover morphological mapping, surficial material genesis, geomorphic processes and finally, production of a terrain and terrain stability map. The course includes three days in the field to ground truth the map. Prerequisite: EASC 206, 303. Recommended: GEOG 252, 313.
Application of geotechnics to the resource sector with particular emphasis on forestry and minerals. Topics covered will include: Engineering geological characterization, slope failure mechanisms in soil and rock, methods of slope stability analysis, techniques of slope reinforcement and stabilization, slope monitoring, road construction and deactivation, underground excavations and petroleum geotechnics. Brief case studies will be used to illustrate the influence of geotechnics in the forestry, mining and the petroleum industries. Prerequisite: EASC 313 or permission of instructor.
This course is intended to complement the theoretical aspects of hydrogeology by providing students with hands-on experience using hydrogeological equipment, and implementing sampling and testing protocols. The course involves a series of pre-field session assignments consisting of the analysis and interpretation of geophysical, geochemical and surficial geology data, and a week at a hydrogeology field site on the Fraser River delta, British Columbia. After the field work, students will conduct extensive analysis and interpretation of data gathered during the field session, complete exercises and prepare a written report. The course runs for about three weeks following spring term final examinations. Prerequisite: EASC 304 and 412. Recommended: EASC 207 and/or 307. Quantitative.
Elements of the petroleum system, including basin type, source rock origination, migration, and trapping mechanisms. Techniques used to identify and map potential hydrocarbon reservoirs in the subsurface, including geophysical methods, surface mapping, well log correlation, and core/chip sample descriptions will be discussed. This material will be presented in a context that demonstrates the life cycle of a hydrocarbon field from exploration (early), delineation (assessment), and production (mature) stages. Datasets available during different stages of development will be discussed in light of their pertinence to optimal reservoir performance. Prerequisite: EASC 304, 309.
An introduction to physical and chemical volcanology through a comprehensive examination of volcanic eruptions and their consequences. The main topics covered are the rheological properties of magmas and lavas, structure of volcanic landforms, eruption dynamics, monitoring and hazard assessment, the emplacement of volcanic deposits, extraterrestrial volcanism and the effects of eruptions on the environment. Prerequisite: EASC 207. Corequisite/Prerequisite: EASC 301.
A course in which reading and research, and/or field work will be supervised by a faculty member. Prerequisite: units including 30 units in Earth Sciences courses and permission of the department.
A course in which reading and research, and/or field work will be supervised by a faculty member. Prerequisite: 75 units including 30 units in Earth Sciences courses and permission of the department.
A course in which reading and research, and/or field work will be supervised by a faculty member. Prerequisite: 75 units including 30 units in Earth Sciences courses and permission of the department.
Will include experimental and/or theoretical research in earth sciences or a related discipline, and the preparation of a thesis (research report). Selection of a research topic and preparation of the thesis will be done in consultation with a faculty member in earth sciences. A research seminar will be delivered at the end of the semester. Prerequisite: 105 units, admittance to the honors program and consent of a thesis supervisor.
A required course designed to acquaint new graduate students with the research strengths of the program, research facilities in the University, and its vicinity. Procedures and policies relating to preparation, conduct and presentation of thesis research will be discussed. Graded satisfactory/unsatisfactory.
Advanced topics in understanding water-rock interactions and the geochemistry of groundwater during processes such as weathering and recharge, acid mine drainage, diagenesis and hydrothermal ore deposit formation. The course focuses on the physical and chemical principles that govern the geochemistry of groundwater with emphasis on water sample collection and analysis, chemical thermodynamics, gas-water-rock interactions and geochemical modeling. Prerequisite: undergraduate course in hydrogeology recommended (or permission of instructor).
This course reviews the principles of isotope geochemistry and examines case studies on the application of isotopes to hydrogeology and hydrogeochemistry. Problems in groundwater quality/resource evaluation including the origin of recharge, identifying and quantifying evaporation and water balance, ground water/surface water interactions and groundwater mixing will be addressed. Isotope methods in groundwater age dating will be discussed as well as the use of environmental isotopes in understanding water-rock interactions and groundwater flow paths. Prerequisite: undergraduate courses in hydrogeology and ground water geochemistry recommended (or permission of instructor).
This course is intended to complement the theoretical aspects of physical hydrogeology and aqueous geochemistry covered at an undergraduate (or early MSc) level by providing students with hands-on experience using hydrogeological equipment (data loggers, pumps, chemical sampling equipment), implementing sampling and testing protocols, and observing state-of-the-art monitoring and geophysical tools. The course entails preparatory research and data interpretation on the hydrogeology of the Fraser delta (including surficial geology, regional geochemistry and geophysical characteristics), a week at a hydrogeology field site on the Fraser River delta (early May), the extensive analysis and interpretation of data gathered during the field session complemented with regional data acquired during preliminary investigations, the development of a large-scale simulation model of the groundwater flow system at the site, and the completion of a comprehensive hydrogeological report. The course normally runs for about three weeks following spring session final examinations. Note: This course has limited enrollment. Prerequisite: undergraduate courses in physical and chemical hydrogeology (or equivalent) and consent of the department.
This course will focus on increasing the level of understanding of the mechanisms by which rocks deform and the effect of environmental variables (effective pressure, temperature, strain rate, chemical environment, etc.) on these deformation mechanisms. Lectures will cover flow concepts applied to ductile deformation, grain-scale to crustal-scale strain partitioning, and models of exhumation of metamorphic rocks. The link between far-field effects such as lithosphere rheology, climate and erosion, and orogenic style will also be discussed. Prerequisite: undergraduate level courses in structural geology and global tectonics, equivalent to EASC 204 and 309 (or permission of the instructor).
An advanced introduction to theoretical glaciology within a continuum mechanical framework. The course focuses on fundamentals of glacier and ice-sheet flow and the key surface and subsurface processes that drive them, Course content includes a brief review of tensor analysis and continuum mechanics, glacier mass and energy balance, the material properties and rheology of ice, the basic equations of glacier deformation, ice-sheet and shelf flow, basal processes, glacier hydrology, and unstable modes of flow. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
Focuses mainly on the field description, measurement and interpretation of geological, geochemical and geophysical features, and may concentrate on certain aspects of bedrock or surficial geology. Includes methods of data acquisition, display and modeling. Field exercises may be augmented by directed readings and laboratory studies. Course costs depend on the location and duration of field work and the nature of related investigations. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Application of seismic methods of the delineation of hydrocarbon deposits and crustal structure. Travel time expressions for a layered Earth; Zoeppritz' equations; 2-D and 3-D seismic surveying methods; reflection data processing, including deconvolution and migration; amplitude versus offset methods and direct hydrocarbon detection; seismic wave propagation in Earth's crust; refraction inversion; principles of seismic interpretation. Prerequisite: EASC 417 or equivalent.
Field relations, nature and origin of metamorphic and metsomatic rocks, graphical treatment and interpretation of mineral assemblages and heat-flow regimes in the framework of global tectonics, with special emphasis on derivation of pressure-temperature-fluid conditions ranging from low-grade rocks through granulites to partial melts. Laboratory: petrographic techniques applied to the study of rock suites. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
An introduction to the practical application of geological and geophysical concepts in the petroleum industry. The course will focus on the use of facies models, porosity and permeability, geophysical logs, drillstem tests, drilling, and production strategies in petroleum exploration and exploitation. Particular emphasis is placed on the geologist's role in the industry, both in discovering new hydrocarbons, and in improving recovery (through waterflooding and carbon-dioxide flooding) from existing hydrocarbon reservoirs. Prerequisite: Knowledge and/or experience in sedimentary geology, stratigraphy, and facies models.
An advanced treatment of topics which may include processes of sedimentation, facies model concepts, applications of ichnology, and depositional environments with an emphasis on siliciclastic successions. Course content will be tailored to student interest, but generally will include both non-marine and marine processes of sedimentation and resultant depositional systems. The development of effective field criteria for the interpretation of the sedimentary record will be emphasized.
Stratigraphic concepts of lithostratigraphy, biostratigraphy, chronostratigraphy and genetic stratigraphy. The course concentrates on genetic stratigraphy, with emphasis on allostratigraphy, genetic stratigraphic sequences and sequence stratigraphy. Students will critically assess each paradigm and its applicability to both the subdivision and the interpretation of the sedimentary record. Relative sea level changes and their effects on deposition will be discussed in relation to the preserved sedimentary record. Students will examine the utility of facies analysis in the various genetic stratigraphic frameworks and the viability of reconstructing the depositional history of sedimentary successions.
An introduction to groundwater modelling providing the relevant theory and practical experience to develop and test conceptual models, to recognize data requirements, and to identify the limitations of numerical models. State-of-the-art groundwater modelling software will be used. An emphasis is placed on modelling flow in the saturated zone, but unsaturated zone hydrology, solute transport, and density dependent flow are also covered.
Advanced topics in subsurface exploration methods. Methods of drilling; core description and analysis; well logging.
Instrumentation, application and limitations of electrical, seismic, radar and gravity methods in the exploration for mineral resources and in engineering applications.
Fluid mechanics of open channel flow; physical sedimentology and sediment transport in aqueous environments. Prerequisite: appropriate standing in Applied Mathematics and in Physics.
Environments of glacial and proglacial deposits. Quaternary stratigraphy and dating methods with emphasis on the Cordillera.
Regional processes of subsidence and basin formation from a plate tectonics viewpoint. The course will examine the origins and general characteristics of convergent, divergent, intraplate and hybrid basins. Methods of discriminating basin origins from an understanding of depositional systems, stratigraphic analysis, provenance and compositional variations will be examined.
An examination of the concepts, methods and techniques used in advanced case studies of environmental geology, in fields including forestry, environmental geochemistry, earthquake and volcanic hazard, and urban planning.
Physical, chemical and tectonic aspects of volcanology examined with emphasis on processes of magma generation and evolution, styles of eruption, environments of deposition, and interpretation of volcanic facies. Prerequisite: undergraduate course in petrology and structural geology.
Geological processes at convergent plate margins are considered in the context of plate tectonic principles. Topics to be addressed include: driving forces of tectonic plates, mantle convection, geometry of subducted slabs, ridge-trench intersections, generation of volcanic arcs, causes of anomalous magmatism, accretion of terranes, and transpression of orogenic float. Prerequisite: undergraduate structural geology and petrology courses.
The conceptual framework of ichnology with particular emphasis on the ethological (behavioral) classification of biogenic structures, as well as its applications to the ichnofacies concept and paleoenvironmental interpretation of the sedimentary record. Environmental stresses and organism responses will be integrated with conventional sedimentology to highlight the complex inter-relationships between infauna and the environments they inhabit. The genetic stratigraphic applications of ichnology will also be addressed. Prerequisite: advanced undergraduate sedimentology course.
In addition to examining groundwater resources (exploration, evaluation and management), this course expands upon the theory and use of aquifer tests and their respective methods of analysis for evaluating groundwater resources. Advanced methodologies for partially penetrating wells, leaky aquifers, anisotropic aquifers, double porosity type and fractured aquifers will be included. Computer applications will be emphasized. Prerequisite: undergraduate course in groundwater.
The stratigraphy, structure and historical geology of the Canadian Cordillera, examined from a plate tectonic perspective. Models of development of the various terranes and related entities, and their amalgamation to form the present Codillera, will be examined in detail. Prerequisite: an undergraduate background that includes courses at any level in structural geology, plate tectonics, geochemistry, geophysics, petrology (sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous), plus permission from the instructor.
A reading and seminar course on topics related to the development and ongoing evolution of the Canadian Cordillera. Topics will be based on both graduate student areas of interest and on current 'hot topics' concerning this orogenic belt. One or more field trips might be conducted if there is sufficient interest and such trips would compliment the topics of discussion. Prerequisite: an undergraduate background that preferably includes courses at any level in structural geology, plate tectonics, geochemistry, geophysics, petrology (sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous). This background will be assessed by the instructor, whose specific permission must be obtained before enrolment.
Focuses on the modern and ancient carbonate depositional system, including platform geometry, grain types, diagenesis, porosity development, climatic influence, and eustatic influence. Petrology of outcrops, cores, and thin sections will be discussed and applied to characterization of carbonate systems in the subsurface. Presents a combination of academic theory and practical applications used in the petroleum industry, especially in directed study exercises. Mandatory weekend field trip to classic carbonate outcrops in western Canada. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
No description available
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
No description available
Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program. Graded satisfactory/unsatisfactory.
Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD program. Graded satisfactory/unsatisfactory.
Prerequisite: enrolment in PhD Program.
An overview of the broad economic trends in the development of the world economy over the last five decades with reference to the major debates related to economic interdependence, development and growth, globalization, and the role of the major multilateral economic institutions (IMF, World Bank, OCED, ILO, UN). (lecture/tutorial) Students with credit for Economics courses at the 200 (or higher) division (excluding ECON 200 and 205) may not take ECON 102 for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
The principal elements of theory concerning utility and value, price and costs, factor analysis, productivity, labor organization, competition and monopoly, and the theory of the firm. Students with credit for ECON 200 cannot take ECON 103 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction of broad, basic economic ideas applied to government finance, allocation, and procurement. Topics covered may include government size, health care, debt, social insurance, trade, and redistribution policies. Prerequisite: students with credit for Economics courses at the 200 (or higher) division (excluding ECON 200 and ECON 205) may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
The principal elements of theory concerning money and income, distribution, social accounts, public finance, international trade, comparative systems, and development and growth. Students with credit for ECON 205 cannot take ECON 105 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Social Sciences.
A preliminary approach designed to familiarize students with economic ideas and methods of economic analysis. The focus will vary from term to term. Students with credit for ECON 100 cannot take ECON 110 for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Banking theory and practice in a Canadian context; the supply theory of money; the demand for money and credit creation; monetary policy in a centralized banking system and in relation to international finance. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and 105 or 205. Students with credit for ECON 310 cannot take ECON 210 for further credit. Quantitative.
The pre-industrial period. History of the economic development of civilization from ancient times until the industrial revolution. Emphasis will be placed on the influence of geographical factors, discoveries and inventions, religion, and social organization and customs. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and ECON 105 or 205. Students with credit for ECON 150 cannot take ECON 250 for further credit. Quantitative.
Economic analysis of environmental problems (water and air pollution, etc.). Evaluation of market failures due to externalities and public goods. Market and non-market regulation of environmental problems. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200. Students with credit for ECON 360 cannot take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
First term of work experience in the Economics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: 30 units including ECON 103 or 200 and ECON 105 or 205. At least 12 of these 30 units must be completed at Simon Fraser University with a minimum CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term.
This is the second term of work experience in the Economics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: economics lower division requirements and completion of 45 units at least 12 of which must be completed at Simon Fraser University, with a CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term.
The subject matter will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
A general survey of Canadian microeconomic policy issues. The course covers topics such as regulation, taxation, environmental and resource policy, health care, education and income distribution. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and ECON 105 or 205. Quantitative.
A general survey of Canadian macroeconomic policy issues. Topics will include the costs of inflation and unemployment, monetary and fiscal policy, the effects of government debt and exchange rate policy. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and ECON 105 or 205. Quantitative.
The objective of this course is to introduce students to the economic approach to decision-making by individuals, firms and institutions. They will see how economic analysis can be used to interpret current economic issues and as an aid to the formation and evaluation of government policy. The course will focus on both microeconomic and macroeconomic concepts. By exploring economic issues, the course will encourage critical thinking and develop problem-solving skills. Prerequisite: this course is available only to students who are enrolled in the Integrated Studies Program. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Aspects of microeconomic theory involving competitive markets. Topics include the behavior of households and firms, partial equilibrium analysis of product and factor markets, and general equilibrium. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and ECON 105 or 205; MATH 157; two 200 division ECON or BUEC courses (excluding BUEC 232), 60 units. Students with a minimum grade of A- in both ECON 103 and ECON 105 can take ECON 301 after 30 units and are not required to meet the 200 division ECON or BUEC course requirements. Students seeking permission to register based on ECON 103 and 105 grades must contact the Undergraduate Advisor in Economics. Quantitative.
Aspects of microeconomic theory concerned with strategic behavior, imperfect information, and market failure. Topics include game theory and oligopoly; uncertainty and insurance; asymmetric information and market power, externalities and public goods, together with related issues in welfare economics. Prerequisite: ECON 301. Students who have taken ECON 383 in 1998-3 and 1999-3 cannot take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Concepts and methods of analysis of macroeconomic variables -- consumption, investment, government and foreign trade. Classical and Keynesian models compared; analysis of economic statics and dynamics. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200; ECON 105 or 205; MATH 157; two 200 division ECON or BUEC courses (excluding BUEC 232), 60 units. Students with a minimum grade of A- in both ECON 103 and ECON 105 can take ECON 305 after 30 units and are not required to meet the 200 division ECON or BUEC course requirements. Students seeking permission to register based on ECON 103 and 105 grades must contact the Undergraduate Advisor in Economics. Quantitative.
Introduces students to the economics of imperfect competition. Topics covered include the theory of the firm, market structure, and various aspects of firm strategy such as pricing, advertising, product differentiation, and innovation. Related questions of public policy will also be addressed. Prerequisite: ECON 301; 60 units. Quantitative.
The mathematical interpretation of fundamental economic concepts; demand, supply, competitive equilibrium. Application of the calculus to production and distribution theory, growth models and investment theory. Differential and difference equations in dynamic economic models. Introduction to activity analysis. Prerequisite: ECON 103, 105 and MATH 157 or 151; 60 units. Students who have completed MATH 232 or 251 cannot take ECON 331 for further credit. Quantitative.
Topics discussed in this course are: gains from trade in a classical world; the modern theory of international trade; factor price equalization; empirical tests and extensions of the pure theory model; economic growth and international trade; the nature and effects of protection; motives and welfare effects of factor movements; multinational enterprises; the brain drain; customs union theory; pollution control and international trade. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and 105 or 205; 60 units or permission of the department. Students with credit for ECON 442 cannot take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Foreign exchange markets; determination of spot and forward exchange rates; Euro currency markets; balance of payments statistics; international adjustment theory; income price and exchange rate effects; the role of international short term capital flows; the international monetary system: gold standard, freely floating rates, dollar gold exchange standard, centrally created reserves. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and 105 or 205; 60 units or permission of the department. Students with credit for ECON 445 cannot take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Analysis of leading issues in Canadian economic history. The historical experience of other areas will be examined when useful contrasts can be made. Prerequisite: ECON 301; 60 units.
People in small scale societies face numerous economic problems and have devised a variety of institutions to solve them. Using detailed case studies as a source of empirical information, we will develop economic concepts and models that help to make sense of these institutional arrangements. Prerequisite: ECON 103 and 105; 60 units. Students who have taken ECON 387 in Fall 1998 or Fall 1999, or ECON 383 in Fall 2001 or Fall 2003 may not take this course for further credit.
Analysis of theories of economic development. Consideration will be given to the requirements of successful development, to aspects of international co-operation, and to procedures of economic planning. Problems of emerging countries and models of various developing economies will be studied. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and 105 or 205; 60 units. Students with credit for ECON 455 may not take ECON 355 for further credit. Writing/Quantitative.
Application of economic analysis to natural resource problems and efficient management practice; public policy considerations in respect to development and conservation; benefit-cost analysis. Prerequisite: ECON 301; 60 units. Quantitative.
Evolution of the global economy and its institutions, including historical developments dating from the nineteenth century up to the present day. Examines common themes across all periods, such as international trade, capital, and immigration flows. Prerequisite: ECON 305. Students who have taken ECON 382 in Spring 2008, Spring 2009, or Spring 2010 terms cannot take ECON 372 for further credit.
This is the third term of work experience in the Economics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: economics lower division requirements and completion of 60 units, at least 12 of which must be completed at Simon Fraser University with a CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term.
This is the last term of work experience in the Economics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: ECON 301 or ECON 305 and 75 units with a CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term.
Analysis of the economics of the labor market with particular emphasis on wage determination, the concept of full employment, and manpower policies. Prerequisite: ECON 301; 60 units. Quantitative.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The subject matter will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The subject matter will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The subject matter will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The study of the normative rationale for government in a market economy through an analysis of distributional issues, public goods, externalities, non-competitive market structures, and asymmetric information. Prerequisite: ECON 301. Quantitative.
The study of the public economics of taxation including the efficiency and distributional aspects of taxation, the incentive effects of taxation, tax incidence, tax evasion and fiscal federalism. Prerequisite: ECON 301. Quantitative.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. This course can only be taken once for credit towards a degree or diploma. Prerequisite: ECON 103 or 200 and ECON 105 or 205; 60 units.
Advanced coverage of microeconomic theory for students intending to pursue graduate study in economics. Topics may include general equilibrium, game theory, and asymmetric information. Prerequisite: ECON 302 and 331. Students who have completed both MATH 232 and MATH 251 may substitute these courses for ECON 331. Entry into this course requires a minimum CGPA of 3.0 or a minimum grade of A- in both 301 and 302. Students seeking permission to enrol based on ECON 301 and 302 grades must contact the Undergraduate Advisor in Economics. Quantitative.
Advanced coverage of macroeconomic theory for students intending to pursue graduate study in economics. Topics may include economic growth, business cycles, and monetary theory. Prerequisite: ECON 302, 305 and 331. Students who have completed both MATH 232 and MATH 251 may substitute these courses for ECON 331. Entry into this course requires a minimum CGPA of 3.0 or a minimum grade of A- in both ECON 302 and 305. Students seeking permission to enrol based on 302 and 305 grades must contact the undergraduate advisor in economics. Quantitative.
Critical discussion of contemporary and original papers in the social sciences. Emphasis will be on the objectives, the logical aspects, and the testability of social science theories and models. Prerequisite: 70 units.
Consideration of particular economic theorists, schools of thought or themes in economic thought. Focus will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and 305, or permission of the department; 60 units. Writing.
Analysis of money as an economic variable; role of money in micro and macroanalysis. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and 305. Quantitative.
An in depth examination of firm behavior in the context of imperfect competition. Topics covered may include: monopoly and oligopoly pricing; product differentiation; market power; entry deterrence; antitrust laws; and regulation. Emphasis will be given to covering a limited number of issues in detail rather than attempting a broad survey of industrial organization theories. Prerequisite: ECON 302.
A study of how markets, firms and other institutions are organized using information and transaction cost theories. Topics covered may include: theories of the firm (governance, structure, ownership, signaling and screening behavior); theories of non-market institutions (marriage, non-profit organizations, governments); institutional theories of growth and economic history; and the organization of markets (reputations, contracts, vertical control). Emphasis will be given to covering a limited number of issues and theoretical perspectives in detail rather than attempting a broad survey of new institutional economics. Prerequisite: ECON 302. Writing.
This is a research course covering topics in experimental economics, tests and economic behavior, and issues in applied economics. Experimental economic methods, results, and their implications for economic analyses will be reviewed. Individual projects will be designed and carried out by participants. Prerequisite: ECON 302 and 305. Quantitative.
The application of input-output studies, linear programming and the theory of games to economic analysis. Dynamic models, general equilibrium models and the mathematics of marginal analysis. Prerequisite: ECON 301, 305 and 331; 60 units. Students who have completed MATH 232 and MATH 251 may substitute these courses for ECON 331. Quantitative.
The application of econometric techniques to the empirical investigation of economic issues. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and BUEC 333. Entry into this course requires a minimum CGPA of 3.0 or a minimum grade of A- in both ECON 301 and BUEC 333. Students seeking permission to enrol based on ECON 301 and BUEC 333 grades must contact the Undergraduate Advisor in Economics. Quantitative.
Focus will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ECON 301, 305 and 342; or permission of the department; 60 units.
Focus will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ECON 301, 305 and 345, or permission of the department; 60 units. Quantitative.
Explores the economics of crime. Topics will include statistical information on crime, economic theories of crime, deterrence, organized crime and related topics. Prerequisite: ECON 302 and BUEC 333. Writing.
Focus will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and 305. Writing/Quantitative.
A detailed examination of the major issues in European economic history. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and 305; 60 units. Students with credit for ECON 351 may not take ECON 451 for further credit.
Topics will vary but may include the biological evolution of economic preferences, economic behavior in hunting and gathering societies, the transition from foraging to agriculture, the emergence of inequality, heirarchy, warfare, cities, and the state, and mechanisms of social collapse. Prerequisite: ECON 302. Students who have taken ECON 482 in the summer of 2004 may not take this course for further credit. Writing.
The application of economic theory and empirical analysis to issues related to the role of education in economic growth and individual earnings, the organization of the education system and education policy. Specific topics covered will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ECON 301. Students who have taken ECON 482 in fall 2005 may not take this course for further credit.
An economic analysis of behavior within the family, institutional aspects of the family, and the economic role of families. Topics include bargaining, household production, intra-family transfers, fertility, marriage, divorce and other topics like doweries, footbinding and mate matching behavior. Prerequisite: ECON 301. Students who have taken ECON 496 in Spring 2006 may not take this course for further credit. Writing.
Topics in economic development. Prerequisite: ECON 302 and 305. Writing/Quantitative.
Focus will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ECON 302. Quantitative.
This is an optional term of work experience in the Economics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: ECON 301, 305, one 400 division course and 90 units and a CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the third week of the preceding term.
Seminar focusing on public policy as it relates to employment and income security. Special emphasis will vary from term to term, but may include such topics as examinations of current manpower, welfare and public insurance programs, labor legislation, and private institutional practices (such as union-management pension arrangements) that may affect income security. Prerequisite: BUEC 333 and ECON 381.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
The application of economic theory to political market place. Topics may include the economics of constitutions, voting, democracy, bureaucracy, rent-seeking, and redistribution. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and 305; 60 units. Quantitative.
This seminar course considers topics such as the potential role for government through an analysis of distributional issues, public goods, externalities, non-competitive market structures, and asymmetric information. It may also include topics like the incentive effects of taxation, tax incidence, tax evasion and topics in fiscal federalism. Prerequisite: ECON 392 or 393 and ECON 302. Quantitative.
The subject matter will vary from term to term depending upon the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
Independent reading and research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. This course may not be repeated for additional credit. Prerequisite: ECON 301 and 305 and permission of the undergraduate chair of the department; 60 units. Variable credit hours: 1, 2 or 3 units.
The purpose of this course is to permit the student to expand and develop a paper that has been prepared for a previous course into an honors paper. Prerequisite: ECON 302, 305, a minimum CGPA of 3.0. Prerequisitie/Corequisite: ECON 435. Joint Honors students may use ECON 301 in place of 302. Quantitative.
First term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program. Prerequisite: completion of core MA degree requirements of ECON 802, 807 (or 808), 835, and 836 with a minimum GPA of 3.0.
Second term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program. Prerequisite: ECON 750.
Third term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program. Prerequisite: ECON 751 and department approval.
Applications of static optimization techniques, matrix algebra, differential and difference equations in economic models.
An examination of the economic theory of market prices with reference to behavior of individual households, firms, and markets. Special emphasis will be placed on the implications of individual behavior for the allocation of resources. Prerequisite: ECON 331. Offered once a year.
The course subsequent to ECON 802 which covers advanced Microeconomic theory on a dynamic and general equilibrium basis. Prerequisite: ECON 802. Offered once a year.
The course following ECON 802 and 803 which covers such topics as equilibrium theory, axiomatic analysis, stability analysis, income distribution, dynamic micro models, and models of non-market economics. Prerequisite: ECON 802 and 803 or equivalent.
An examination of basic macroeconomic theory, empirical macroeconomic data and models, macroeconomic analysis, and application to economic developments and policy issues. Prerequisite: ECON 798 or equivalent. Offered once a year.
An analysis of current theories of aggregate economic behavior. Topics covered in this course may include long-run growth, dynamic general equilibrium models, and business cycle analysis. Prerequisite: ECON 798 and 403 (or equivalent). Students who have taken ECON 805 cannot take ECON 808 for further credit. Offered once a year.
This course covers advanced macroeconomic theory topics. Emphasis will be placed on current research techniques. Topics covered may include: capital and growth theory, real business cycle models, models of fiat money, asset pricing models, endogenous growth models, development traps, macroeconomic complementarities, co-ordination failures, and adaptive behavior in macroeconomic models. Prerequisite: ECON 808. Students who have taken ECON 806 cannot take 809 for further credit.
An examination of theories of the supply and demand for money in micro- and macro-contexts, from the classical analysis to the most recent developments. Emphasis will be placed upon the role of money in economic activity, the precise nature of its demand and supply conditions, and policy-implications of theoretical conclusions with regard to money.
Selected topics in monetary theory and policy.
A study of optimum portfolio selections and diversification of financial assets including cash vis-a-vis different classes of utility functions of final wealth. Also, an examination of the behavior of speculative prices and rates of return. Prerequisite: ECON 331. Offered once a year. Equivalent courses: BUS 815.
A study of capital market equilibrium theories, risk allocation, valuation models under perfect and imperfect markets and their empirical testing. Prerequisite: ECON 331, 835. Offered once a year. Equivalent courses: BUS 817.
Extensions of advanced topics beyond those covered in BUEC 815 and 817. Prerequisite: BUEC 815, 817. Equivalent courses: BUS 818.
A presentation and critical examination of the industrial organization models; includes a review of mainstream and current theoretical literature, and important empirical work in the field.
This course examines topics specific to the theory of the firm. Classes will focus on theories of transaction cost, principal-agency, and the theory of contracts. Particular attention will be given to the strategic interaction of the agents.
The course will deal with experimental methodology and design. A number of topics will be covered in the three main areas of experimental economics: markets, games and strategic interaction, and individual decision-making. Students will be expected to design and conduct their own experiments under the supervision of the instructor.
Various equilibrium models of micro and macro theory will be examined with emphasis on their solution, stability conditions and the uniqueness of solutions. Prerequisite: ECON 331.
The first part of the course will focus on dynamic optimization problems, with an emphasis on dynamic programming. Applications may include growth, business cycles, monetary and fiscal policy, and optimal contracts. The second part of the course will focus on models of learning and bounded rationality. Genetic and stochastic approximation algorithms will be studied. Applications may include the stability of rational expectations equilibria, the evolution of institutions and social conventions, and models of robust control and Knightian uncertainty. Prerequisite: ECON 802, 807 or 808, or with the approval of the instructor.
An introduction to econometric theory. Applications of econometric methods to both time series and cross-section data. Prerequisite: ECON 435 and ECON 798. Offered once a year.
A 'hands-on' course in implementing econometric techniques for empirical investigation of economic issues. Prerequisite: ECON 835 or equivalent.
The theory of the general linear model and the implications of basic econometric problems such as multicollinearity, autocorrelated residuals, errors in variables and heteroscedasticity. The use of dummy and lagged variables, simultaneous equation models. The identification problem. Estimation of over-identified equations. Prerequisite: ECON 835 or equivalent. Offered once a year.
This course presents advanced topics in time series econometrics, with an emphasis on model building, estimation, inference and forecasts in finance and macroeconomics. Univariate and multivariate models of stationary and nonstationary time series in time and frequency domains will be studied. General topics will include specification testing, method of moments estimators, applications of maximum likelihood, simulation and bootstrap methods, and estimation and inference in nonlinear models. These will be presented in the context of ARMA models, impulse-response functions, vector autoregressions and state space models, frequency domain methods, unit roots, cointegration, models of volatility, extreme value analysis and risk management, long-memory models, structural change, hidden-markov models, high frequency finance and wavelets. Prerequisite: ECON 837.
Presents advanced topics in econometric theory in a microeconomic setting. Topics will include specification testing, method of moments estimators, applications of maximum likelihood, simulation and bootstrap methods, and estimation and inference in nonlinear models. These will be presented in the context of cross-sectional and panal data, including discrete choice models, limited-dependent variable models, and duration models. Prerequisite: ECON 837.
The analytical course dealing with the pure theory of international trade. The motivation of supply and demand in international trade, the dynamic basis of trade, the role of the price mechanism and of income changes in international trade. Specific problems may be considered, such as the theoretical case for free and multilateral trade, and the theory of customs unions.
Balance of payments theory, foreign exchange theory, and adjustment processes. A range of applied problems will be dealt with such as the operation of exchange rates, analysis of exchange rate systems, exchange control and the processes of short and long term capital movements in international trade.
Detailed studies of a limited number of international economic problems. The selection of topics will depend to some extent upon the expressed interests of the students.
A close examination of the work and methodology of leading economic historians. Study of methodology of selected works in economic history, with special emphasis on the identification of implicit theories and assumptions. Application of quantitative approaches and economic theory to selected problems. Independent work.
An examination of theories and controversies from the transition of feudalism to capitalism. Comparative study of the emergence and subsequent evolution of industrialization. How economic institutions affect the character and pace of economic development. Regional disparities and economic growth in given countries. Relationship between economic growth and international expansion. Examination of declining sectors, stagnation, institutional changes in the 20th century.
Effects of the North Atlantic economy on the pace and character of Canadian and American economic development. The role of staple exports and the linkages to manufacturing and transportation developments. Canadian national policy, with emphasis on regional effects, internal consistency and comparison to similar policies in the United States. Factors for growth and cyclical changes in the 20th century. In all the above areas, an attempt will be made to apply quantitative techniques of the new economic history to the problems of economic change.
Characterization of non-growing economies; mechanics of the process of economic development; the role of economic and non-economic factors; structural transformation in economic development.
Equilibrium analysis and economic growth; determinants of growth; steady state and steady growth; technical progress and equilibrium growth. Prerequisite: ECON 808.
Examination of the characteristics of a given underdeveloped economy; allocation of resources and factor strategies; historical or contemporary comparisons of public policy and development.
An examination of the determinants and consequences of population growth. Population projections. Fertility and mortality differentials. The impact of the business cycle on fertility and migration. The theory of the optimum population under static and dynamic conditions. Neo-Malthusianism. The economics of high fertility in densely populated and underdeveloped areas.
The analysis of the role of the natural environment in economic system. All economic activity creates waste products (pollution) which must be disposed of back into the natural environment. The socially efficient amount of waste generation and disposal is determined and methods of reaching this level evaluated. This involves the theoretical and empirical determination of the costs and benefits of waste generation and a thorough discussion of the role of government policies: taxes, standards, tradeable emission permits versus private market initiatives (bargaining and green goods) under a variety of assumptions about the economic system.
Basic issues of intertemporal valuations. The economic theory of natural resource management for non-renewable resources, fisheries and forests. The effects of market structure and taxation on intertemporal supply patterns will be considered.
Theoretical analysis of fisheries exploitation, emphasizing the characteristics of a common property resource and the economic expression of biological factors. Problems of productivity against the background of national fisheries regulations and international agreements. Public policies in respect of the fisheries, with their social and economic implications.
Analysis of economic fisheries management techniques derived from the study of a variety of actual fisheries management projects. Prerequisite: ECON 863, or permission of the instructor.
The theoretical aspects of regional economics, particularly the following topics; the concept of a region, location theory, theories of regional economic growth, and techniques for regional analysis. Prerequisite: ECON 331 recommended.
An applied course in regional economics. Topics include the following: concepts of regional planning, development planning techniques, study of Canadian regional development problems. Prerequisite: ECON 865.
Emphasis on costs, demand and pricing of transportation services. Additional topics to be studied include government promotion of transport, transport regulation and the economic effects of transportation improvements.   Recommended: ECON 331.
Topics to be discussed include theories of rationality; social theories involved in the economic concept of equilibrium; the role and status of economic theories and models; methodology versus sociology of economics; theories of economic knowledge; realism of assumptions and value premises in economics.
The origins and development of economic thought from early times until 1870 with special emphasis on mercantilist, physiocratic, classical, Malthusian and socialist doctrines.
The development of economic thought since 1870 will be examined with special emphasis on the evolution of marginal utility theory, general and partial equilibrium analysis, business cycle theories, Keynesian and post-Keynesian economics.
Theoretical analysis of labor in the context of a national resource. Critical examination of the aspects of quantity, quality, allocation and utilization of human resources. Topics given particular attention include labor force participation, structural employment, human capital, incomes policies and the concept of an active manpower policy. Prerequisite: ECON 835.
Collective bargaining: process, content, consequences. Bargaining organizations: goals, structure, decision-making processes. Industrial relations systems in varying economic and institutional environments. Public policy and industrial relations.
An analysis of the economic effects of constraints imposed by common, statute and constitutional law. Topics will include: transaction cost, common property, regulation, negligence and torts, 'free' goods, price controls, non-profit agencies, crime and malfeasance, custom, nature of the firm under various legal guises and the anarchy state dichotomy.
An enquiry into the resource allocational and distributional implications of current and alternative legal arrangements. The economic rationale for and effects of the development of various legal doctrines will be considered. Topics may include anti-combines legislation, compensation and public regulation, and market regulation for purposes of safety, consumer information and income maintenance of producers.
The study of the role of the public sector in a market economy. Topics may include social choice, issues of inequality, public goods, externalities, asymmetric information, and political economy.
Applies economic theory to the analysis of non-market, political choice. Some of the topics studied will be coalition formation and rational voter behavior; allocations under various property rights systems; optimal constitutions; public sector externalities; federalism; discrimination, nationalism and crime.
The study of the public economics of taxation including income taxation, commodity taxation, and capital taxation. The focus is on the efficiency and distributional aspects of taxation which include the incentive effects of taxation, tax incidence, tax evasion, tax competition, and fiscal federalism.
Examination of Marx's economic theory, with particular emphasis on capital, theories of surplus value and the Grundrisse.
Comparative study of capitalist, communist, socialist and mixed forms of national economic organization, with emphasis on the allocation of resources and distribution of income.
In the summer term following the completion of a PhD student's theory comprehensive exams, the student will enrol in this course. In consultations between the student, the graduate chair, and faculty, the student will be assigned a supervisor for the course. During the term, the student will write a research paper in their field of interest. A satisfactory completion of the course is through the presentation of the paper as an economics department thesis proposal seminar. Graded as satisfactory or unsatisfactory.
Offered by arrangement.
Offered by arrangement.
Offered by arrangement.
Supervised reading in a particular field of specialization. Offered by arrangement.
Supervised reading in a particular field of specialization. Offered by arrangement.
Supervised reading in a particular field of specialization. Offered by arrangement.
No description available
No description available
Prerequisite: ECON 802, 807 or 808, and 836 and significant written work in one or more MA courses (e.g. A term paper).
No description available
No description available
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdrawal basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Courses may be offered on a pass/withdrawal basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This course is intended for practising teachers, school administrators or other practising educators who are involved in curriculum development. The course provides opportunities for members of the teaching profession to work on curriculum development projects under the supervision of faculty members and/or distinguished practitioners designated by the faculty. Those wishing to undertake a field based studies course must submit a proposal form, available from the Office of Field Programs, before the end of the term prior to the one in which the student intends to commence the study. The proposal must be approved by the director of field programs prior to enrolment in the course. Field based studies courses may have a unit value of 2, 3, 4 or 5 depending upon the nature of the proposed project. Evaluation is based on a pass-withdraw system. Field based studies in curriculum development may not form a component of EDUC 404. The course may form a component of an approved program of studies for the post baccalaureate diploma. Prerequisite: teaching certificate or permission of the director of field programs.
This course is intended for practising teachers who wish to upgrade their professional work in a specific area of instruction or educational service. The field work is completed by individuals or groups of teachers under the supervision of a faculty member or field studies supervisor designated by the faculty. Those wishing to undertake a field based studies course must submit a proposal form, available from the Office of Field Programs, before the end of the term prior to the one in which the student intends to commence the study. The proposal must be approved by the director of field programs prior to enrolment in the course. Field based studies courses may have a unit value of 2, 3, 4 or 5 depending upon the nature of the project proposal. Evaluation is based on a pass/withdraw system. Field based studies in educational practice may not form a component of EDUC 404. The course may form a component of an approved program of studies for the post baccalaureate diploma. Prerequisites: teaching certificate or permission of the director of field programs.
This course is intended for practising teachers who wish to upgrade their professional work in a specific area of instruction or educational service. The field work is completed by individuals or groups of teachers under the supervision of a faculty member or field studies supervisor designated by the faculty. Those wishing to undertake a field based studies course must submit a proposal form, available from the Office of Field Programs, before the end of the term prior to the one in which the student intends to commence the study. The proposal must be approved by the director of field programs prior to enrolment in the course. Field based studies courses may have a unit value of 2, 3, 4 or 5 depending upon the nature of the project proposal. Evaluation is based on a pass/withdrawal system. Field based studies in educational practice may not form a component of EDUC 404. The course may form a component of an approved program of studies for the post baccalaureate diploma. Prerequisites: teaching certificate or permission of the director of field programs.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdrawal basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdraw basis. Variable credit units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field  based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdrawal basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdrawal basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdraw basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdraw basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdrawal basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This field based course will explore issues of concern to experienced practising educators. Course may be offered on a pass/withdraw basis. Variable units: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Prerequisite: EDUC 405 or special permission of the instructor.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfacotry/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a  satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research  and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course requires students to investigate current theory, research and pedagogy related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructioinal and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
This course involves students in critical examination of policy, curricular, instructional and assessment practices related to a particular theme. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2,3,4,5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course students read for, plan and develop a conceputal framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students read for, plan and develop a conceptual framework for action that connects theme studies to the individual's professional context. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In these courses, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In these courses, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In these courses, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In these courses, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In these courses, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students implement plans for action, conduct classroom inquiry, and document their individual learning related to the theme of the course sequence. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their conributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
In this course, students work in groups to investigate topics of mutual interest within the diploma theme, with an emphasis on their contributions to both the cohort learning group and the individual's broader educational community. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
An introduction to a small but representative sample of basic questions and issues in education. Students will examine questions relating to: the concept or idea of education; learning and the learner; teaching and the teacher; and more generally, the broader contexts of education. This course also introduces students to different ways of exploring educational questions and issues from philosophical and critical analysis, to historical and cross-cultural studies, to empirical research. Cannot be taken for credit by students with credit for 300 and 400 level education courses. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Scholarly exploration of the self, and one's place in the University context using tools of narrative inquiry.
Utility and aesthetics of mathematical experience is presented through the exploration of selected topics. Prerequisite: Students who have credit for MATH 151, MATH 154, MATH 157 need special permission to participate in EDUC 211 and EDUC 212. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Utility and aesthetics of mathematical experience is presented through the exploration of selected topics.  Prerequisite: Students who have credit for MATH 151, MATH 154, MATH 157 need special permission to participate in EDUC 211 and EDUC 212. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A survey of educational research and theories concerning motivation, learning, development, and individual differences in classroom settings. May be applied towards the certificate in liberal arts.    Breadth-Social Sciences
An introductory survey of research methods used in developing and testing theories in educational psychology. Illustrations are drawn from published research in educational psychology. Corequisite: EDUC 220. Quantitative.
Provides prospective teachers and others interested in education an opportunity to examine a variety of educational problems from a philosophical perspective. The central concern of the course is to elucidate the nature of education as a phenomenon distinct from such activities as training, schooling, and socialization. May be applied towards the certificate in liberal arts. Breadth-Humanities.
Social functions of the school; education and socialization; social, political, economic and cultural influences on the institutions and practices of education. May be applied towards the certificate in liberal arts.
A study of major trends in educational practice from antiquity to the present. May be applied towards the certificate in liberal arts. Breadth-Humanities/Social Sciences.
Provides opportunities for prospective educators to begin their development as reflective practitioners. Through readings, classroom activities and discussions, and interactions with students and practicing teachers, students will be exposed to various educational issues and questions. They will be given time to explore their own values and beliefs about education and teaching. Time may be spent observing in a selection of educational settings, and there may be opportunities to work with learners individually, and in small and large groups. Students with credit for EDUC 401 or holding a teaching certificate may not take this course for credit.
Course will explore issues of current concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units (2 or 3) will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be on a pass/fail basis. Variable units: 2, 3. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used towards a Bachelor of Education degree.
Course will explore issues of current concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units (2 or 3) will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be on a pass/fail basis. Variable units: 2, 3. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used towards a Bachelor of Education degree.
An introduction to Aboriginal education in Canada and BC. There will be a critical examination of historical and contemporary issues in education and an exploration of culturally based Aboriginal education grounded in Aboriginal philosophies. Prerequisite: 60 units. Breadth-Humanities.
Conceptions of numeracy in contemporary society; consequences of innumeracy; enhancing personal numeracy skills; examination of numeracy across the curriculum. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. This course is designed for students NOT working in a Mathematics or Science specialization. Quantitative.
A review of theories of language acquisition and their relationship to child communication disorders. Topics include: theories of language acquisition; individual and developmental differences in language acquisition; language structure and use in children with diverse disabilities, autism spectrum disorder, sensory disabilities and emotional and behavioral disabilities, interdisciplinary approaches to early intervention in the home, school and community. Prerequisite: EDUC 220 or PSYC 250.
Examines theories of instruction and research about learning, motivation, individual differences, and social environments as foundations for designing instruction. Topics include: models of cognition; models of motivation and beliefs; metacognition, self-regulated learning, and learning skills; problem solving and transfer; cognitive processing models of instruction in mathematics, science, social studies, reading and composition. Prerequisite: EDUC 220.
An overview of theory, research and practice concerning social emotional development and social interactions and relationships in the school context. Emphasis on the role of peer relationships in development and the role of the school in supporting positive interactions. Prerequisite: EDUC 220 or PSYC 250.
Survey of theories undergirding counsellor and teacher interventions aimed at promoting emotional growth, development and personal change. Examination of theories and their sociological, cultural and philosophical contexts. Exploration of links between frequently used interventions and the implicit theories underlying these strategies. Students who have credit for EDUC 425 cannot take EDUC 323 for further credit. Prerequisite: EDUC 220 or equivalent, and 60 units.
Provides an introduction to multicultural counselling and human diversity with an emphasis on culture, gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, religion, age, and abilities. Prerequisite: EDUC 220 or PSYC 250 and 60 units.
A survey of assessment methods that contribute to improving teaching and learning, and for making judgements and decisions about qualities of teaching, the classroom environment, and student achievement and growth. Topics include: goal and task analysis, validity and reliability, observing and assessing classroom processes and environments, self-report methods, assessing student achievement, published tests of achievement and aptitude, marking and reporting. Prerequisite: EDUC 220.
An examination of contemporary approaches to classroom management and discipline, including a consideration of legal, organizational and administrative issues. The major goal of the course is to enable students to comprehend the basic principles and tenets of a number of management approaches and to translate these principles into specific teaching strategies and skills. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403 or one of EDUC 100, 220, 230, 240.
A critical examination of theoretical and empirical programs of inquiry in educational psychology that are concerned with the self (e.g., self-esteem, self-concept, self-directed or self-regulated learning). Students will participate in a wide-ranging seminar that considers topics such as the relationship between personal and social being, historical perspectives on the self, the formation of social identity, the roles of memory, imagination, and narrative inselfhood, the development of agency and self, and education and personhood. Prerequisite: 60 units, including one of EDUC 220, 230, 240 or 250.
An introduction to theories of career choice, adjustment and development. Emphasis on critical evaluation of established theories that are influential in the development of career education curricula and in the practice of career counselling. Prerequisite: EDUC 220 or EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
In this experiential course students will develop an understanding of the movement concepts (action, space, time, force, relationship) which are the framework for making and teaching dance. This course will explore dance as a non-verbal expressive language, and will introduce students to a variety of aspects of dance within the curriculum. Previous dance training is not required. Prerequisite: 60 units including six units in EDUC courses.
Investigates the use of naturalistic observation and photo documentation techniques that can be used as a method of formative assessment leading to responsive ECE curriculum planning. Prerequisite: PSYC 250 and 45 units.
First term of work experience for the Faculty of Education Co-Operative Education Program. Provides opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op coordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree.
Literacy has a far-reaching impact on the creation of knowledge, the organization of society, and the formation of institutions. This course explores leading policies, practices and ideologies guiding literacy education for adults, youth, and children in formal and informal education settings, in which traditional print literacy and digital literacy cultures intersect. This course is required for the certificate in literacy instruction. Prerequisite: 60 units including three in EDUC courses. Breadth-Humanities.
This course focuses on innovative approaches to literacy instruction in adult learning and out-of-school settings. Topics to be explored include voice and agency, engagement, assessment and meeting the needs of diverse learners through storytelling, writing, dance, drama, music, visual and digital arts. This course is appropriate for people with an interest in lieteracy education who may or may not have experience facilitating literacy learning. This is a required course for the certificate in literacy instruction. Prerequisite: 60 units including three in EDUC courses.
This course focuses on innovative approaches to literacy instruction in adult learning and out-of-school settings. Topics to be explored include voice and agency, engagement, assessment and meeting the needs of diverse learners through storytelling, writing, dance, drama, music, visual and digital arts. This course is appropriate for people with an interest in lieteracy education who may or may not have experience facilitating literacy learning. This is a required course for the certificate in literacy instruction. Prerequisite: EDUC 341 (can be taken as a co-requisite). Writing.
The literacy practicum is the vehicle through which students in the Certificate in Literacy Instruction implement and evaluate the model of adult literacy instruction developed in EDUC 342. Implementation may occur in a variety of contexts and institutions with adults; the literacy practicum will be supervised and may involve supervised teaching, curriculum developments, or research field work. Prerequisite: EDUC 342.
Second term of work experience for the Faculty of Education Co-operative Education Program. Provides opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op coordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrol in this course. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser Uuniversity degree.
This is a basic course in adult education for students from all disciplines, of particular interest to those working (or preparing to work) with older adults. The goal is to assist students to develop more effective strategies for meeting the needs of an aging population through education. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Building on the experience of EDUC 252, prospective educators will continue to develop their reflective practice. Various educational issues related to the caring for learners and the creation of learning communities will be explored. Students will spend time in educational settings exploring the importance of connected educational experiences for learners. Students with credit for EDUC 401 or holding a teaching certificate may not take this course for credit. Prerequisite: EDUC 252.
Building on the experience of EDUC 252, prospective educators will continue to develop their reflective practice. Various educational issues related to the caring for learners and the creation of learning communities will be explored. Students will spend time in educational settings exploring the importance of connected educational experiences for learners. Prerequisite:    EDUC 252.  Students with credit for EDUC 401 or holding a teaching certificate may not take this course for credit Writing
Deals with teaching theatre in an educational context. It will develop knowledge of theatre skills, and a variety of approaches and techniques for teaching theatre and theatre in the schools. Prerequisite: 60 units.
A survey of major traditions of  research and development in educational technology, including the arguments and assumptions they make about what constitutes a valuable educational outcome. Focus on analyzing and understanding educational technologies as cultural tools that are both shaped by and in turn shape teaching and learning in K-12 schools. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Temporarily withdrawn. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Practical and theoretical approaches to international and intercultural education, including examinations of the relationships between culture, learning and schooling, and contemporary issues in teacher education from an international perspective. Prerequisite: completion of at least 60 units, including 3 units in Education.
Explores health concepts, health behaviors, and health concerns of school-aged children and youth. Focuses on comprehensive and co-ordinated school health programs, innovative instructional strategies, and health-promotion initiatives to create healthy school communities. Prerequisite: 60 units; or permission of instructor. Writing.
Causes of Mathematics risk and anxiety from both a conceptual and a dispositional point of view. Exploration of different remediation strategies. Enhancement of personal mathematical skills through immersion in a problem-solving environment. The role of mathematical competence in society and job market. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students with credit for EDUC 415 or EDUC 475 may not take this course for further credit. This course is designed for prospective secondary teachers not working in a Mathematics or Science specialization. As such, students with sufficient credit to receive a minor in Mathematics, Physics, Biology or Chemistry will not receive credit for this course. Students who have credit for or are currently enrolled in EDUC 415 or EDUC 475 cannot take EDUC 375 for credit. Quantitative.
A modern language methodology course designed to develop skills necessary to instruct a basic Core French program. Begins at SFU and is completed at Laval University in Quebec City. Curricular emphasis includes the practical use of authentic documents. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Corequisite: EDUC 480 or 481. Basic knowledge of French recommended.
For students contemplating becoming teachers of Immersion, Core French at the secondary level, or for intermediate and middle school generalists who want to have an introductory overview of second language teaching in general and French education in British Columbia specifically. The general objective is to help prospective French teachers to better understand Canadian bilingualism, its historical, sociopolitical and cultural context, as well as gain a basic understanding of French education programs in British Columbia. The language of instruction will be French, but the class will be "English-friendly". Prerequisite: FREN 301 or 304 or 370 or equivalent.
An examination of the impact of social diversity on schooling in Canada exploring contemporary issues and perspectives on diversity education as they relate to cultural, ethnic, racial, linguistic, religious, economic, and gender differences. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students who have received credit for EDUC 441, EDUC 382 Special Topics from Fall 2003 on, cannot take EDUC 382 for further credit.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major isues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in Education Special Topics course may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
Explores major issues of present concern. Subjects to be taught and the exact assignment of units and prerequisites will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. Course may be given on a pass/fail basis. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 2,3,4,6.
A half term of observation and experience in a BC school during which two students work as a team with a teacher selected by school authorities and appointed by Simon Fraser University as a school associate. Students observe, teach and participate in school routines and programs. Grading is on a pass/withdraw basis. Prerequisite: Admission to Professional Development Program. Students with credit for EDUC 403 may not take EDUC 401 for further credit. Writing.
A half term of study which provides students with workshops, seminars, and lectures designed to introduce them to basic curriculum and methods appropriate for the age/grade level in which they expect to teach. Students will also be given an introduction to generic teaching skills, as well as to current issues in educational theory and practice. Grading is on a pass/withdraw basis. (Not offered in summer term.) Prerequisite: admission to PDP or PLP program.
A half term of study which provides students with workshops, seminars, and lectures designed to introduce them to basic curriculum and methods appropriate for the age/grade level in which they expect to teach. Students will also be given an introduction to generic teaching skills, as well as to current issues in educational theory and practice. Grading is on a pass/withdraw basis. Prerequisite: admision to PDP or PLP program. Writing.
Aims to develop students' dispositional capacities and engage them in comparative studies of teaching/learning between their current roles and their future roles as teachers. Students participate in observation and practice teaching. Grading is on a pass/withdrawal basis. Prerequisite: EDUC 402. Students with credit for EDUC 401/401W may not take this course for further credit.
Students undertake 15 upper division units in Education to complete the professional development program requirements. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
A full term of classroom experience supervised by University appointed school associates. The school placement is appropriate to the grade level and subject specialties which the student expects to teach after graduation. Grading is on a pass/withdraw basis. (Not offered in summer term.) Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or EDUC 402/403.
Education 406 is designed for those who need to meet BC certification requirements. It is a supervised orientation/observation/teaching sequence of approximately ten weeks, in a BC public school. This practicum is designed as an opportunity to familiarize students with the British Columbia school system and update their teaching skills. Prerequisite: permission will not be given to students without previous teaching experience. Grading will be on a pass/withdrawal basis. Students with credit for EDUC 407 may not take EDUC 406. EDUC 406 is not applicable toward the credit requirements for a degree or diploma, i.e. not counted in total units.
Students examine secondary mathematics from an advanced standpoint, focusing on problem solving, investigating connections among various topics and representations, and situating secondary mathematics in a broader context, both mathematical and historical.  Grading will be on a pass/withdrawal basis. Prerequisite: One of MATH 152, 155 or 158. Corequisite: EDUC 415 or appropriate math background and permission of instructor. Quantitative.
Focuses on teaching secondary school language arts and addresses aspects of the theory and practice of language arts education. Students examine their own thinking about language arts education through critical reflection, work with the prescribed curriculum, and explore various ways to develop engaging learning experiences for young adults within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 472 prior to the 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 412 for further credit. Writing.
Focuses on teaching secondary school social studies and addresses aspects of the theory and practice of social studies education. Students examine their own thinking about social studies education through critical reflection, work with the prescribed curriculum, and explore various ways to develop engaging learning experiences for young adults within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 474 cannot take EDUC 414 for further credit.
Focuses on teaching secondary school mathematics. Students explore mathematical learning, their own mathematical thinking and curriculum; and plan mathematical instruction within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403 and one of MATH 152, 155 or 158. Students who have credit for EDUC 475 prior to the 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 415 for further credit. Quantitative.
Focuses on teaching secondary school science. Students explore the sciences and aspects of learning science; examine their own scientific thinking; work with the prescribed curriculum; and plan science learning experiences within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 476 prior to the 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 416 for further credit.
A study of conceptual and historic foundations of learning disabilities and an introduction to the methodologies of diagnosis and of learning disabilities. Prerequisite: PSYC 250 or corequisite of EDUC 315 or 473.
Introduction to the rationale for and the practice of basic counselling skills. Emphasis on the development of counselling skills as a means of establishing effective helping relationships in educational settings. Prerequisite/Corequisite: EDUC 323.
Supervised experience in analysis and evaluation of treatment strategies to be used with classroom students having learning disabilities. Prerequisite/Corequisite: EDUC 422.
An introduction to the field of special education including studies of the definitional criteria and characteristics of major categories of special need, and the distinctive instructional challenges associated with these categories. The course focuses on the special learning needs of school age students, both elementary and secondary school levels, and emphasizes both the analysis of issues and treatment needs across the array of special needs. Prerequisite: 60 units including EDUC 220 or PSYC 250, or EDUC 401/402, or Corequisite: EDUC 403.
A review of classroom teaching practices that support learning for children with high-incidence disabilities (e.g., learning disabilities, Attention Deficit Disorder, mild intellectual disabilities, moderate behavior disorders). Topics include: introduction to inclusive teaching, collaboration partnerships and procedures, teaching students with high-incidence disabilities, developing effective teaching skills, improving classroom behavior and social skills, promoting inclusion with peers, enhancing motivation and affect, assessment and teaching in the content areas. Prerequisite: EDUC 422 and either 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403 or permission of the instructor for students with experience working with children with high-incidence disabilities.
Concepts and practices related to the nature and nurture of the potential for giftedness in educational settings will be introduced. Theoretical and historical foundations of common practices in gifted education will be covered. Grading will be on a pass/fail basis. Prerequisite: EDUC 220 or PSYC 250 or PYSC 302 and EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Writing.
For students and teachers with some movement and dance experience who are planning to teach dance in school or recreational settings. Students will continue experiential and theoretical explorations of movement language framework concepts with increasing emphasis on expressive, formal and critical aspects of dance and movement education. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Examines fundamental philosophical issues involved in designing, evaluating, or changing educational curricula. Such issues as the nature and justification of educational curriculum, the components of a rational curriculum, the nature of knowledge and its differentiation, curriculum integration and the education of the emotions. Also deals with such current issues as the place of behavioral objectives in education, the hidden curriculum and the sociology of knowledge. Prerequisite: 60 units including six units in EDUC courses or EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
An examination of the rationale for and concepts of global education including its content, methods and skills objectives, and its place in existing provincial curricula. Prerequisite: 60 units, including three of which must be in Education.
Ethical problems in education are identified and examined. Four major areas of concern are explored: 1. the normative character of education as a whole; 2. the justification of education; 3. ethical questions related to equality, autonomy, interpersonal relationships, and rights in education; 4. moral education and values education. Prerequisite: EDUC 230 or EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403 or permission of the instructor.
What is the connection between popular culture and education? Using the concept of "societal curriculum," students will study the representation of socially constructed differences in movies, music videos, cartoons and toys produced for and/or consumed by youth to examine how these constructions reproduce or challenge existing norms and power relations in mainstream society. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students cannot take this course for further credit if same title has been taken under a Special Topics course number.
Third term of work experience for the Faculty of Education Co-operative Education Program. Provides opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the semester prior to registration for this course. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.
Focuses on developing approaches for multicultural and anti-racist teaching. Topics include: diversity of race, language and culture among learners; identifying the operation of racism, prejudice and discrimination in classrooms and schools; becoming familiar with a variety of approaches such as: co-operative learning, culturally appropriate assessment, and community involvement to counteract and prevent negative classroom and school dynamics; identifying bias in curriculum resources; and locating entry points in selected curriculum areas (e.g. language arts, social studies, art, music, etc.) for integrating approaches which employ a range of multicultural/anti-racist curriculum resources. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have received credit for EDUC 382 cannot take EDUC 441 for further credit.
Designed to provide education students, teachers, counsellors and school administrators with a comprehensive understanding of the legal issues and potential legal liabilities encountered in the BC public school system. Special attention is devoted to the legal dimensions and consequences of routine classroom and administrative activity. Topics include: sexual abuse by school board employees; negligence and supervision; private lifestyles and community standards; discipline and corporal punishment; sexual harassment in the workplace; responsibility for curriculum fulfillment; liability outside school hours; and the AIDS controversy. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Provides a fundamental knowledge of law to teach law-related content in the BC curriculum: social studies, science, personal planning, language arts, P.E., social responsibility, and business. Topics: Canadian legal system, legal history, legal reasoning, dispute resolution strategies, the role of the courts, and family, environmental, property and contract laws. Prerequisite: 60 units.
The justification and practise of law-related education in the K-12 curriculum are the subjects of this methodology course. Students will examine the place of law in the curriculum, existing resources and appropriate teaching strategies and will have the opportunity to develop unit plans and curriculum materials. Emphasis is on developing and implementing law-related programs in the classroom. Prerequisite: 60 units including six in education courses. Teaching experience is recommended.
Fourth term of work experience for the Faculty of Education Co-operative Education Program. Provides opportunity to integrate theory and practice. This course is open only to co-op students. The co-op co-ordinator must be contacted at the beginning of the term prior to enrolment for this course. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.
Intended for students who would like to gain insight into teaching French as a second language while improving their knowledge of the French language and of the associated culture in a classroom context. The language of instruction will be French. Corequisite: EDUC 402.
Temporarily withdrawn. Prerequisite: When the course is offered in French - 60 units and 12 units of French or equivalent. When the course is offered in English - 60 units.
Examines the educational problems entailed in developing human awareness and understanding of the environment. Explores environmental issues through a multi-disciplinary approach and relates historical and contemporary problems in human-environment interactions to school curricula from the elementary to the secondary level. Includes a laboratory component. Grading will be on a pass/fail basis. A $46 field activity fee will be levied in this course. Normally offered in summer session only. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.  Students who have credit for EDUC 454 may not complete EDUC 452 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Integrating mathematical, scientific and socio-cultural methods and processes of learning across the curriculum and in teaching practice. Students will experience and apply approaches that are situated in the practices of environmental and social scientists through modelling, simulation and evaluation. Prerequisite: EDUC 401 and EDUC 402 or Corequisite: EDUC 403. Students who have completed EDUC 452 may not complete this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Major conceptions of educational value in the contemporary arts, and application of these ideas to the development of visual arts programs in the schools. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Deals with theory, curricula and methodologies in drama education. Topics will include a selection from the following: aims of drama education; drama as methodology; role of the teacher in the drama classroom; evaluating students in drama classes; creative drama; the use of improvisation and storytelling; incorporating film and video work into drama classes; developing major projects with students such as choral dramatization, docudrama, anthology, and readers theatre; introducing scene work, stagecraft, and theatre history. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Focuses on theory and curriculum of school physical education programs. Emphasis is given to the movement education orientation as it pertains to the various program activities and approaches applicable to primary, intermediate and secondary levels. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Current trends, issues and research relating to the education of young children. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403 or PSYC 250.
Historical, sociological and literary perspectives on literature for children. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Designed to expand on the theoretical foundations provided in EDUC 464 engaging students in the critical analysis of programming for early learners by surveying a variety of program types and providing both an overview of content areas for further discussion and inquiry specific to curriculum and instruction. Prerequisite/Corequisite: EDUC 464.
Designed for prospective and beginning teachers to learn more about theory, research, and practice in teaching English as an additional language (EAL) in today's multilingual classrooms. Exploring an integrated approach working with learners to develop language skills through designing and delivering curriculum, instruction and assessment. Prerequisite: 60 units plus one of the following: six units of lower division EDUC course work; or completion of EDUC 401/402; or admission to the Certificate in Teaching ESL program.
Designed for prospective and beginning teachers to learn more about theory and research in language acquisition, sociocultural understandings of language development and thought, bilingualism and cognition, linguistic multicompetence. Exploring the implications of research and theory for the teaching and learning of EAL in classroom contexts. Prerequisite: 60 units including 6 units in Education courses.
Understanding the language of music, both historical and contemporary, and use of electronic and acoustic instruments in the general music classroom. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Explorations of curriculum theory and processes of development with applications at different levels and in several subject areas. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Focuses on developing knowledge, skills and strategies to create a rich and stimulating language arts program in the elementary classroom. Issues in reading, writing, speaking and listening will be examined through current theory and teaching practice. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 472 prior to 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 472 for further credit.
Focuses on developing knowledge, skills and strategies to create a rich and stimulating language arts program in the elementary classroom. Issues in reading, writing, speaking and listening will be examined through current theory and teaching practice. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 472 prior to 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 472 for further credit. Writing.
Offers theoretical and practical information about teaching reading in K-12 general education settings. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Writing.
Focuses on teaching elementary school social studies and addresses aspects of  the theory and practice of social studies education.Students examine their own thinking about social studies education through critical reflection, work with the prescribed curriculum, and explore various ways to develop engaging learning experiences for children within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 474 prior to 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 474 for further credit. Students with credit for EDUC 414 cannot take EDUC 474 for further credit.
Focuses on teaching elementary school mathematics. Students explore mathematical learning, their own mathematical thinking, and curriculum; and plan mathematical instruction within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 475 prior to 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 475 for further credit. Quantitative.
Focuses on teaching elementary school  science. Students explore science, aspects of learning science, and their own scientific thinking; work with the prescribed curriculum; and plan science learning experiences within a consistent framework using appropriate instructional materials and methods. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Students who have credit for EDUC 476 prior to 2001-2 term cannot take EDUC 476 for further credit.
Introduces students to the main ideas, skills, materials, resources, understandings and organizational concerns involved in teaching art in schools. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Designed for in-service and pre-service teachers who would like to acquire the skills that will allow them to teach music competently and creatively. They will learn basic conducting techniques, design their own curriculums and have an opportunity to prepare and teach their own lesson plans. Previous musical experience is welcome, but not required. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Consideration is given to the pedagogical principles underlying the development of inclusive physical programs at the primary, intermediate and secondary levels. Involves practical consideration of instructional strategies and curriculum planning in physical education, particularly as they apply to alternative environment activities. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Corequisite: EDUC 459.
Deals with a variety of approaches, teaching strategies and curricula, for teaching French as a second language in elementary and secondary schools. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Deals with a variety of approaches, teaching strategies and curricula, for teaching French as a second language in elementary and secondary schools. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Writing.
Focuses on research and theories of language learning in bilingual programs and minority contexts, pedagogical approaches and curricula for teaching in French Immersion programs and Francophone elementary and secondary schools. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 (French Immersion) or corequisite EDUC 403. Instruction given in French.
Focuses on research and theories of language learning in bilingual programs and minority contexts, pedagogical approaches and curricula for teaching in French Immersion programs and Francophone elementary and secondary schools. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 (French Immersion) or corequisite EDUC 403. Instruction given in French. Writing.
Students will develop a critical understanding of information technologies in education and learn how to integrate these technologies into classroom settings.  An emphasis is on teaching strategies and methods as they complement the guidelines set forth in the BC Information Technology Curriculum. Prerequisite: 60 units.
Development of conceptual and technical skills through workshops, seminars, and directed and independent study. Deals with human development and learning in the school. Stress will be placed on approaches to individualizing instruction and to integrating the curriculum in different subject areas. It will normally be taught by two or more faculty members. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403.
Examines scientific misconceptions on two levels. Nature and origins of common misconceptions about the physical, material and living world. A critical examination of what it means to have a "misconception" and an exploration of different models and strategies for helping learners to evaluate and modify problematic ideas. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Quantitative.
Designed to help students become better teachers of writing. Students will be involved in four aspects of teaching writing: teacher as writer, teacher as teacher of writing skills, teacher as researcher, teacher as developer of curriculum. Techniques for providing effective writing experiences will be studied, demonstrated and practised. Students will observe, use and evaluate these techniques. Course content: teacher as writer -- writing skills, audience, purpose, writing process, self-evaluation. Teaching writing -- research, skill acquisition, self-disclosure, risk and creativity, thought and discipline, evaluation. Teacher as researcher -- reflective observation, analysis of data, program evaluation, peer support systems. Teacher as developer of curriculum -- student writing, drama, literature, use of texts. Prerequisite: EDUC 401/402 or corequisite EDUC 403. Writing.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed wiill be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of units (3, 4 or 6) and prerequisites for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed will be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of unitd (3, 4 or 6) and prerequisites for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed will be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of units (3, 4, or 6) and prerequisites for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a Bachelor of Education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6.
Directed study in education under the supervision of a faculty member. Prerequisite: 60 units and a CGPA of 3.0, consent of supervising faculty member, and approval of the director of undergraduate programs. A maximum of three directed studies courses will be approved for a maximum of 12 units. Directed studies courses may not parallel regularly taught courses. A student may take a maximum of two directed studies courses with the same faculty member. Applications are available in the undergraduate programs office. Variable units 2, 4.
Directed study in education under the supervision of a faculty member. Prerequisite: 60 units and a CGPA of 3.0, consent of supervising faculty member, and approval of the director of undergraduate programs. A maximum of three directed studies courses will be approved for a maximum of 12 units. Directed studies courses may not parallel regularly taught courses. A student may take a maximum of two directed studies courses with the same faculty member. Applications are available in the undergraduate programs office. Variable units 2, 4.
Directed study in education under the supervision of a faculty member. Prerequisite: 60 units and a CGPA of 3.0, consent of supervising faculty member, and approval of the director of undergraduate programs. A maximum of three directed studies courses will be approved for a maximum of 12 units. Directed studies courses may not parallel regularly taught courses. A student may take a maximum of two directed studies courses with the same faculty member. Applications are available in the undergraduate programs office. Variable units 2, 4.
A multidisciplinary approach for educators in formal and informal settings with an interest in learning more about environmental issues. Students will consider multiple perspectives on the goals, values and interdisciplinary nature of environmental education, review locally available curricular materials and obtain a grounding in appropriate models for learning and teaching environmental topics. Prerequisite: 60 units and a CGPA of 3.0, EDUC 452, consent of supervising faculty member, and approval of the director of undergraduate programs. Applications are available in the undergraduate programs office.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed will be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of units (3,4,or 6) for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a bachelor of education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6. Prerequisite:    This will be announced prior to the beginning of each term.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed will be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of units (3,4,or 6) for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a bachelor of education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6. Prerequisite:    This will be announced prior to the beginning of each term.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed will be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of units (3,4,or 6) for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a bachelor of education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6. Prerequisite:    This will be announced prior to the beginning of each term.
Sections will deal with major issues of present concern. Subjects to be discussed will be announced during the term prior to that in which the course is to be offered. The exact assignment of units (3,4,or 6) for the special topics offering will be announced prior to the beginning of each term. A maximum of 12 units in education special topics courses may be used toward a bachelor of education degree. Variable units 3, 4, 6. Prerequisite:    This will be announced prior to the beginning of each term.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Variable units 3, 4, 5.
Variable units 3, 4, 5.
Variable units 3, 4, 5.
Variable units 3, 4, 5.
Variable units 3, 4, 5.
Variable units 3, 4, 5.
An initial clinical course where students develop their basic and beginning counselling skills and increase their conceptual understanding of theoretical perspectives of counselling through practice, including counselling processes and case conceptualizations. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Prerequisite: EDUC 862, 870, 874.
An advanced clinical courses where students further develop their counselling skills and increase their conceptual understanding of theoretical perspectives of counselling through practice, including counselling processes and case conceptualizations. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Prerequisite: EDUC 799.
Supervised clinical experience for students enrolled in the MEd or MA Counselling Psychology Program. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Prerequisite: EDUC 800.
Advanced supervised clinical experience for students enrolled in the MEd or MA Counselling Psychology Program. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Prerequisite: EDUC 801.
The course systematically examines school-based variables amenable to administrative manipulation and associated with student achievement.
No description available
This course involves an examination of theoretical, empirical and practical literature on social and emotional development in young children and its application to education and school settings.
No description available
Surveys the philosophical and sociological dimensions, moral and ethical considerations, and empirical findings of action research. Only students admitted by Field Programs are allowed to enrol for this course.
No description available
An introduction to major paradigms of inquiry in educational psychology including their inherent assumptions, central concepts and dominant procedures. The practices of ethical scholarship and presentation and dissemination of knowledge in educational psychology are additional foci.
Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
This course critically examines organizations in which educational leaders work from different theoretical perspectives and in light of research evidence. It also critiques several past and current reform initiatives, and explores specific topics in-depth. A central and pervasive question of the course concerns organizational purposes, especially with respect to learning, and how these purposes are served by organizational structures and processes.
This course examines the administrative world in which educational leadership occurs, including: administrative ideologies, theories of practice and institutional arrangements; values analysis; and technical fields such as financial, legal and human resources. This is complemented by an introduction to current research findings and to distinct theoretical traditions (e.g. structural-functional, interpretive and critical) in which research examining administrative processes is conducted. Topical issues and problems will be explored within the conceptual framework of the course.
Investigates theories and issues associated with developing educational programs and practices in various educational contexts. Addresses the development of new programs and their implementation in schools and other educational settings.
This course examines three interrelated aspects of policy studies as a critical function of the educational leadership role: conceptual and theoretical foundations concerning policy, policy actors, and policy processes; current research in the field; and topical issues and problems. It also considers social, economic and political contexts (e.g. technologization, corporatization, pluralism) and how they affect education.
This course examines three interrelated aspects of educational leadership studies of conceptual and theoretical foundations, with a particular emphasis on ethics of leadership; current research in the field, including feminist and cultural critiques; and topical issues and problems of leadership practice. Considerations of leadership character and role, power and authority in organizational relationships, and organizational goal achievement are central to the course.
Consideration of systems for analysing teacher interaction and their use in analysing the student's own classroom teaching. The course will also deal with models of instruction designed to achieve various categories of educational objectives.
Focuses on educational issues, trends and practices which impact teaching and learning in schools and other educational settings.
Philosophical examination of assumptions underlying practical problems in classroom teaching. Some of the main issues examined include: distinguishing teaching, indoctrination, and conditioning; the use of compulsion, manipulation, and discipline; student/teacher relationships; child-centered education; alternative education; punishment and behavior modification. It also focuses on assumptions underlying such practices as play, learning by discovery, individualized instruction, and open education.
Processes used in program evaluation; including test and other measurement devices; and political, social and philosophical issues relating to the evaluation of educational programs.
An intensive examination of developments in a curriculum area selected by the student. In addition the course will deal with major philosophical and historical factors that influence the present state and future directions of curriculum and instruction.
Theories of sentence, discourse, and context in second language education; teaching scientific genres and humanities genres, use of dictionaries and glossaries, use of standardized and alternative forms of assessment.
Academic factors that impact language learning, the universal grammar model of language, speech perception and production in first and second languages.
Reviews theories of language and reading development for children with and without learning disabilities and the neurobiological evidence in support of these theories. Prerequisite: EDUC 473.
Students will examine current conceptions of individual differences that characterize the heterogeneity of students' abilities in school. Educational implications will also be addressed.
Reviews policies and procedures intended to support learning of children with high-incidence disabilities in general education classrooms. Prerequisite: EDUC 826 or consent of the instructor.
Selective issues important and current in the learning disabilities field are examined in depth. The objective is to enable students to master a significant body of knowledge in the learning disabilities field, and to identify areas of interest for their eventual thesis research. Prerequisite: EDUC 422.
Problems and practices associated with innovation and implementation including the nature of change in the educational context, the roles of teachers, administrators, change agents, and evaluators.
Through narrative inquiry and traditional study, students develop a deep understanding of, appreciation for and ability to access composition as an artistic experience and a teachable craft.
An in-depth study of the ethical foundations of education. Areas in education where ethical questions arise are identified and elucidated. Classical and modern moral positions are examined for their adequacy as theories of moral justification. The topics include the value of education, freedom and equality, and moral and values education.
A critical examination of key aspects of bi- and multilingualism from the double perspectives of sociolinguistics and language education. Current issues and theoretical developments in the study of multilingualism, identity, and language teaching provide a solid foundation to understand second and third language acquisition and literacy development in bilingual settings, including new perspectives on plurilingualism in language planning in education. The language of instruction will be French.
Educational topics and academic and cultural adaptation to graduate study in Canada. Explores key questions in contemporary educational discourses, issues of culture, language and identity, and develops advanced academic literacy through intensive reading and writing.
An in-depth study of selected topics in education and social philosophy and sociological theory.
Students examine the exercise of judgment (discretion) as a key element in administrative decision-making, and investigate the various dimensions of the exercise of discretion: conceptual, empirical, normative and prescriptive using perspectives drawn from diverse administrative contexts.
This course will consist of a study of origins of 20th century concepts of childhood and their relationship to child-rearing and education in Europe and North America.
Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
No description available
Sociocultural criticisms of traditional views of psychological development and learning are examined, and alternatives advanced by an array of sociocultural theories and research pertaining to individual and collective development are explored with particular attention to their relevance for educational contexts, practices, and aims.
The  scholarship on  embodiment and its implications for the body  as a site for knowledge and its relationship to contemporary curriculum inquiry will be studied with specific emphasis on the area of performative and narrative inquiry and arts education. Central to this course will be the investigation of embodiment from both a philosophical perspective and a literary/poetic perspective.
An examination of critical issues, current research and research practices in mathematics education.
Experience in incorporating computers in mathematical problem solving, adaptation of materials for use in mathematics classroom.
An examination of historical, cultural, and psychological forces shaping the secondary school mathematics curriculum. Current developments in mathematics curriculum and in mathematics education research.
The theory and practice of mathematics teaching at the secondary level. Emphasis on the nature of the learner and the function of the teacher.
This course relates critical ideas in aesthetics to questions concerning the nature, purpose, and provision of the arts (visual art, music, drama, dance, literature) in education.
A major survey of the educational theories and practices of musicians and artists generally from medieval times to the present. The special focus will be on modern responses of musicians and artists to modern demands for mass arts education. Material will be drawn from Europe, North America, Asia, and other parts of the world where mass arts education provision occurs.
This course involves an exploration of the concept of creativity used in educational theory and practice. Through an examination of philosophical writings, psychological studies, first hand accounts of creators, biographical and historical material, and works of art and science themselves, an attempt will be made to come to grips with some of the problems which surround this concept and thereby to evaluate views about creativity put forth in theoretical accounts and exhibited in educational practice.
Examines applications of technology in teaching and learning emphasizing the progression of theory and research in this area from the early 20th century through the present to predictions about the future. Related fields of inquiry to be examined include: educational technology, artificial intelligence (AI), computer assisted instruction (CAI), computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL), distance education, and socio-political perspectives on technology.
This course involves an exploration of basic issues and questions which underlie the nature and provision of drama education in the schools. It includes a critical examination of the claims made in the theoretical literature regarding the nature and aims of drama education and an exploration of the implications for drama education curriculum and pedagogy.
Computer-supported collaborative learning environments are designed with three principal objectives: to upgrade the conceptual quality of what is learned; to increase students' abilities to monitor, control and improve their own learning; and to provide improved support for social aspects of learning. In this course students will critically examine the theoretical underpinnings of the design of such learning environments, and examine and contribute to developing practices in K-12 classrooms and other educational settings that make use of them.
The narratives of teachers of minority and Anglo-European ancestry will provide insights into how teachers work within and beyond normative institutionally prescribed roles to define and implement positive social and educational changes for their students.
Theory, research, policy development and program implementation in multicultural and race relations education encompass a wide spectrum of areas of educational inquiry.
Course activities will be structured for participants to consider recent formulations of learners as agents as well as subjects of culturally constructed, socially imposed worlds. Participants will examine a number of ethnographic descriptions of the experiences of learners in a variety of communities, noting in particular their use of diverse mediations/tools, including language. Participants will consider these ideas in relation to their own educational communities and develop plans for research activity in those sites.
Examines the origins of environmental education, the range of program offerings, and the educational concepts which appear to underlie them. Prerequisite: consent of the instructor.
Students examine studies, reports and articles relating to French Immersion methodology, curriculum and program exploration. Students derive classroom applications and curriculum changes from these studies. Prerequisite: EDUC 481.
An introductory examination of various philosophical positions about the nature of science, including logical positivism, naive realism, instrumentalism, relativism and social constructionism, and their relation to curriculum and instruction in science.
An advanced survey of core topics in educational psychology. Prerequisite: An undergraduate course in educational psychology or a cognate field of psychology.
This course reviews research on learning environments (also known as classroom climates or classroom ecologies) in terms of psychological and social perspectives on educational experience. Implications for student learning, professional development and evaluating education innovations are examined.
Assessment procedures used in educational and community counselling settings, including intake assessment, case conceptualization, observational procedures, diagnostic categories, ethics, bias and multicultural and diversity issues. Prerequisite:    Acceptance to the MA/MEd counselling psychology program or permission of instructor.
Focus on critical analysis of quantitative research in education. Research studies examined will be based on exploratory and confirmatory data analysis, including group comparisons and correlations. Students will use calculators and computers for data analysis and display. Prerequisite:    EDUC 810 or 864.
Designing and interpreting research about education. Introduction to survey techniques, correlational designs, classic experimental and evaluation designs for investigating causal relations, case study methods, interpretive approaches to research. Students with credit for EDUC 814 may not take this course for further credit.
Students will study in depth various qualitative methodological approaches to educational research, will develop competence to contribute significantly to knowledge in their particular field of study, and will engage in intensive practice of various methodological approaches to qualitative research introduced in EDUC 867. Prerequisite: EDUC 864 and 867.
This course introduces students to qualitative research in education and examines topics such as identifying problems, using conceptual frameworks, coding, data analysis, drawing interpretations, and constructing arguments. Prerequisite: EDUC 864 (prerequisite not required for students in M.Ed. in Educational Practice stream).
The course examines and relates conceptions of creativity and response in the visual arts to the fundamental questions of curriculum theory.
This course presents the theory and practice of music education based on theories of auditory perception, musical theory, and various cross-cultural perspectives on musical behavior.
Students examine analytic, phenomenological, existential, behavioral and cognitive approaches to counselling, and the philosophical and personality theories upon which they are based. Prerequisite:    Acceptance to the MA/MEd counselling psychology program or permission of instructor.
Students discuss models of family dynamics and instructional interventions applicable by school personnel in family counselling interactions. Concepts and techniques will be explicated through discussion and simulation. Prerequisite: EDUC 870.
Issues related to foundational ethical principles and systems, professional and legal standards for counselling psychology, review of ethics codes, ethical decision-making, and other topics including professional boundaries, competence, service across cultures, social justice, consulting and private practice, and ethical guidelines around evaluation, assessment, supervision, and research.
An examination of contemporary approaches to career counselling.
Counselling skills and strategies are analysed, practiced, and critically examined. Counsellor decision-making, counselling effectiveness, and professionalism in counselling are also considered. Prerequisite: EDUC 870.
Examines issues in research designed to enhance learners' cognitive processes. This research is subsumed under the broad term 'cognitive interventions,' which in turn, refers to research purported to increase learners' success in learning. The issues examined include the historical context, problems and prospects of cognitive interventions.
An examination of contemporary approaches to school counselling. Program development, consultation skills, counselling interventions in school counselling are considered.
An examination of contemporary approaches to group counselling. Prerequisite: EDUC 874.
Covers all major aspects of Lev Vygotsky's cultural-historical activity theory of human development and its contemporary applications in education. Concepts include the zone of proximal development of higher psychological functions, language and consciousness, interfunctional relations, analysis according to units, and "tool-and-result" methodology.
No description available
The project is a study that may take a variety of different forms including a survey, case study, extended essay, curriculum development project inter alia; central to its character is a concern with the application of relevant academic knowledge to professional practice. The project should normally be completed and approved in two terms.
The examination is graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Students who do not complete EDUC 883 in one term must enrol for this course in all subsequent terms.
Provides a historically-grounded treatment of the constructive role of technologies in the transmission and production of cultural knowledge and understanding. Students develop a grasp of the ways in which technologies have mediated and transformed the nature of knowledge, the knower, and processes of coming to know.
Engages students in a critical analysis of learning design theory, including the underlying assumptions these embrace about knowledge, learning, the learner, learning technologies and the nature of instruction. Students will examine the appropriateness of media and learning technologies to support teaching and learning, and create a learning design according to a principled approach.
Design principles for multimedia learning are derived from the theories and research of cognitive science. Topics include: tutorial interactions, history of adaptive learning systems, adapting to individual differences, dialogues with teachers (and other agents), problem solving and cognitive load, learning from multimedia, cognitive principles for document design, tools for self-regulated learning, intrinsic and situational motivation, simulations and self-regulated inquiry, inquiry with microworlds and cognitive tools, multimedia scenarios for anchored instruction.
Reviews constructive approaches to integrating learning technologies, provides analysis tools from cultural historical activity theory, reviews impact of organizational culture and draws on visualization of social activity networks. Organization and change strategies are examined in higher, school and workplace learning; providing a source for designing organizational learning technologies.
Examines methods, practices and thinking of direct value in improving quality and use of learning technologies. Students experience leading software tools for observational analysis, qualitative research and digital ethnography. We consider computer-supported methods for learning technology professionals and for assessing learning technology programs. Prerequisite: EDUC 864.
No description available
The thesis is a research investigation designed to generate and/or examine critically new knowledge in the theory and/or practice of education. The thesis should normally be completed and approved in three terms.
Prerequisite: EDUC 983.
The historical roots of educational thought are examined from a broad cultural perspective. Major works in disciplines such as philosophy, psychology and sociology which have had significant impact on educational theorizing will be studied. Special attention will be paid to the relationship between theory and educational practice.
Contemporary educational theories and theories from supporting disciplines (e.g., psychology, sociology, philosophy) will be examined and analysed. The relationships among contemporary theories, current practice and educational change will be focal.
The apprenticeship is designed to provide the student with practical experience in scholarly inquiry in close co-operation with a faculty member in the student's area of specialization.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Philosophical examination of issues related to the school as an educational institution with social and political connections. Issues examined include: the education/training distinction; the justification of education; compulsory curriculum; freedom and authority in education; equality of educational opportunity; legal-moral questions central to educational administration; teachers'/parents'/students' rights and duties; accountability; and the logic of decision-making.
An in-depth study of epistemological issues in education, including: concepts of perception, cognition, imagination, memory, understanding, learning and the assessment of learning. Other questions dealt with are: What are the various forms of knowledge? What are the implications for core curriculum? What epistemological assumptions underlie current educational practices? Is the relativity of knowledge thesis defensible? Are the claims of sociology of knowledge sound? What is meant by: objectivity/knowledge/belief/truth? In what sense can 'rationality' be defended as a central educational objective?
Students will become familiar with current theories, practices and research about anti-racist and critical pedagogies, and democratic dialogue for coalition-building in educational contexts.
The course will introduce participants to theoretical perspectives and developments in the fields of multilingualism, identity formation and globalization, and to their impacts inside and outside of classrooms. Participants will be encouraged to employ, adapt, and challenge analytic paradigms, and to apply them to the contexts of the classrooms in which they teach and/or the societies in which they have lived.
Students will become familiar with current theory, practice and research in multiliteracies and multimodal literacies in multilingual contexts, in critical literacy pedagogies, and critical discourse analysis with respect to interaction as well as text. Participants will also discuss current critical literacy research practices, and demonstrate the design and execution of such studies.
This seminar is designed for the first term of the doctoral program in Languages, Cultures, and Literacies in the Faculty of Education. It will provide students with opportunities to examine and practice analytical research procedures that are currently in the forefront of socio-cultural, transformative educational scholarship. Students will become familiar with and discuss anthropological approaches in education research.
Participants will discuss methodological approaches in sociolinguistic research in educational and other social contexts. Courses instructors will introduce a range of sociolinguistic research following different methodologies, as well as presenting their own research. Participants will be involved in discussions and analysis in three areas: analysis of data from instructors' research; applicability of methodologies in participants' own social and educational contexts; relevance and applicability of methodologies in terms of participants' emerging research plans.
Participants will discuss examples of critical and sociocultural research in multiliteracies and multimodal literacies in multilingual contexts. Course instructors will present their own as well as others' research, and course discussion will centre on methods and techniques for this approach to critical educational research. Participants will be involved in analyzing data from instructors' projects.
Considers what it means to build and have membership in a learning community, and how the use of computing and telecommunications technologies may contribute to these goals. Students will critically examine reports from a variety of traditions (including anthropology, sociology, cognitive science) about how traditional and "wired" learning communities function. Each student will apply insights from the class readings and activities to produce a design proposal for a future learning community.
An advanced class engaging candidates in research toward social and organizational factors and designs. Projects are determined through student study plans and faculty research.
Examines a new paradigm for designing learning environments that integrates research on the experience of learning complex material with the rigor of systematic design processes. Students will design and carry out a learner-centred study and will be expected to contribute to the development of this new design paradigm in class discussions and in reflective writing.
Focuses on motivations and rationales guiding seminal thinkers in the historical development of mathematical thinking, mathematical cognition and learning, with an eye toward foundational issues in contemporary educational research, theory and practice.
Contemporary theories and methodologies in mathematics education will be examined and analysed. Developing an overview of mathematics education as an evolving research domain will be focal.
This doctoral seminar will explore modes of inquiry through the arts that are important for education. Participants will be introduced to, and learn to practice, various arts-based methods including narrative, performative, poetic, autobiographical and living inquiry.
This course explores, critically, the historical and emergent role and responsibility of the arts in human development, learning and personal transformation. Aesthetic ways of knowing with a focus on metaphor, imagination and archetype are examined together with various Indigenous and cultural perspectives. The course will consider how differing conceptions of arts and the work of artists can influence and have value for education and society, and in particular for arts education and educational researchers.
The course provides a broad theoretical overview of problems and ideas associated with the nature and provision of arts education in the schools.
This seminar is designed to extend and deepen students' understanding of the discipline of mathematics education. It will examine international developments, research programs, special interest groups, recent theories in learning and teaching mathematics, and issues in mathematics teacher education. Prerequisite: EDUC 942.
The broad paradigms encompassing much current educational research are examined, with emphasis on their philosophical and assumptional bases, as well as general ethical and methodological issues. Particular attention is paid to the critical reading of research and the implications for educational leadership. In addition, students begin to identify a research topic and to develop a defensible research orientation.
This seminar examines the ethical and legal environment of professional leadership. Specifically, the course addresses moral issues and dilemmas embedded in professional practice including occupational and ordinary morality, issues of deception and honesty, informed consent, privacy and confidentiality, conflict of interest, individual and collective responsibility, inter alia. The course will use cases and personal experience as heuristics for learning.
The nature and impact of recent wide-ranging systemic educational reform in several different countries are critically examined, through two major themes. One theme is the politics and dynamics of governance, with a particular emphasis on participatory forms of political life in a heterogeneous society. The other theme is the politics and culture of difference, and the development of community which respects these differences.
The special responsibilities of leaders in educational institutions for accountability both to learners and to the wider community with respect to policies, practices and programs are the focus of this seminar. Contemporary approaches to program assessment and to ensuring cost-effectiveness in educational management are applied to cases emerging from student experience.
This course examines how problems in practice are identified, defined and understood from a variety of different theoretical perspectives. Within the common framework of the course, students will investigate a problem or issue of significance to their individual workplaces or to their individual research endeavors.
No description available
A survey of major 20th century systems and paradigms that underlie research and theories in instructional psychology; addresses learning, cognition, motivation, methods of inquiry, and other cornerstones of the field.
In-depth critical analysis of select topics in educational psychology. Prerequisite: EDUC 860. Students who have taken EDUC 865 in previous terms may not take this course for further credit.
Survey of methods for synthesizing knowledge gleaned from primary and secondary research, including meta-analysis and integrative reviewing. Assignments culminate in presenting a colloquium about a topic of the student's choice to the faculty.
Methods for analyzing multivariate data in educational research, meta-analytic methods, and applications and frailties of advanced quantitative analysis. Illustrations from educational research are used throughout. Prerequisite: EDUC 863 and 864 or permission of instructor.
The examination is graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Examines selected works of literature in order to develop a critical awareness of literary techniques and contexts in the representation of experience. May include the comparative study of works in related literary and artistic genres, and will pay some attention to literature of the Twentieth century. Includes attention to writing skills. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Examines selected works of literature in order to develop a critical awareness of literary techniques and contexts in the representation of experience. May include the comparative study of works in related literary and artistic genres, and will pay some attention to literature of the Twentieth century. Includes attention to writing skills. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Examines selected works of literature in order to develop a critical awareness of literary techniques and contexts in the representation of experience. May include the comparative study of works in related literary and artistic genres, and will pay some attention to literature of the Twentieth century. Includes attention to writing skills. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
The literary study of a variety of prose genres, such as the essay, biography, autobiography, travel narrative, and journalistic writing. May include works which challenge the boundary between fiction and non-fiction. The course is intended to develop a critical awareness of literary techniques and contexts in the representation of experience. Includes attention to writing skills. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to the study of literature within the wider cultural field, with a focus on contemporary issues across genres and media. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to reading and writing in the academic disciplines. Prerequisite: 12 units. Writing.
Anglo-Saxon literature and Middle English literature, in translation when necessary. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses. Students who have taken ENGL 204 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of the literature of the period from 1485 to Milton. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses. Students who have taken ENGL 204 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of the literature of the period from 1660 to 1800. May include writing from North America. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses. Breadth-Humanities.
The study of nineteenth century North American, British, and/or Post-colonial literatures. May include some writing from North America. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses. Breadth-Humanities.
The study of twentieth century North American, British, and/or Post-colonial literatures. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses. Breadth-Humanities.
Advanced practice of writing critical, expository prose in a rhetorical context. Prerequisite: two 100-level English courses, one of which must be 199/199W or 3 transfer credits in English writing. Writing.
A study of different historical methods of measuring poetry in English, with practice in scanning and analyzing poems using different methods of quantitative analysis (e.g. Syllabic, rhythmic, alliterative). Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses. ENGL 102/102W is recommended. Quantitative.
Introduction to the history and principles of rhetoric, and their application to the creation and analysis of written, visual, and other forms of persuasion. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses.
The study of selected works in the history of literary criticism, up to and including modern and contemporary movements in criticism. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses.
The study of the basics of the Old English language and the reading of several texts of relative simplicity. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Studies of medieval authors, genres or issues, from 500-1500. Texts will be studied in the original language or in translation. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
The study of selected works by Geoffrey Chaucer, especially The Canterbury Tales, read in the language in which they were written and situated in the context of Fourteenth century European culture. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
The study of non-Shakespearean Early Modern Literature. May be defined by genre, theme, or author. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
A study of the works of William Shakespeare performed before 1601. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students may take both ENGL 311 and 313 for credit towards the English major. Students with credit for ENGL 312 may not take this course for further credit without permission of the department.
A study of the works of Shakespeare performed after 1600. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students may take both ENGL 311 and 313 for credit towards the English major. Students with credit for ENGL 312 may not take this course for further credit without permission of the department.
Selected works of seventeenth-century poetry and/or prose, situated in their cultural context. May include some writing from North America. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students with credit for ENGL 314 may not take this course for further credit.
The study of selected works of late seventeenth century and eighteenth century literature, with an emphasis on genres other than the novel. May include some writing from outside Britain, and may be organized by various critical issues or approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
The study of selected 18th century novels, situated in their cultural context. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Addresses issues in Romantic literature in English. May include texts in a variety of genres and be organized according to various critical approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Addresses specific issues in Victorian literature in English. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach and may include literature from outside of Britain. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses and two 200 division English courses. Students with credit in ENGL 329 or 333 may not take this course for further credit.
The study of selected works of British literature written from 1900 to 1945. May be organized by various critical issues or approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
The study of selected works of British literature written since 1945. May be organized by various critical issues and approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
The study of selected works of American literature written before 1900. This course may survey a particular era or topic, and may be organized by various critical issues or approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students with credit for ENGL 344 or 348 may not take this course for further credit.
Addresses issues in American literature. May be organized by various critical issues or approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses and two 200 division English courses.
The study of selected works of Canadian literature written before 1920. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
The study of selected works of Canadian literature written after 1920. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students with credit for ENGL 356 or 358 may not take this course for further credit.
The study of selected works of British Columbian literature. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Examines works of popular fiction by Indigenous authors, and their use of specific genres (e.g. the mystery novel, vampire thriller, sci fi, comic book). Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students who have taken FNST 322 under this topic may not take this course for further credit. ENGL 360 and FNST 360 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
The study and application of select literary theories. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Recommended: ENGL 216.
Students will engage in theoretically informed practice of writing in various non-academic genres. Emphasis will be placed on the kinds of writing that students are likely to use after graduation. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses and two 200 division English courses. Recommended: one of English 199/199W, 210/210W, or 214.
A seminar-workshop in the theory and practice of creative writing with specific emphasis on poetry. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses and two 200 division English courses.
A seminar-workshop in the theory and practice of creative writing with specific emphasis on prose fiction. Prerequisite: two 100-division English courses and two 200-division English courses, and permission of department contingent on a portfolio writing.
Advanced study in the theory and/or history of rhetoric. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.  Recommended: one of English 199/199W, 210/210W, or 214.
Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Studies in the history, art, and letters of Italy as they inform the study of literature in English. Course may be organized by theme, critical approach, historical period, or individual author, and will be supplemented with related field trips. Prerequisite: 45 units, including two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses; or permission of the field school director. Corequisite: ENGL 378. Students who participated in the English Department Field School in Italy prior to 1087 may not take this course for further credit.
Studies in the history, art, and letters of Italy as they inform the study of literature in English. Course may be organized by theme, critical approach, historical period, or individual author, and will be supplemented with related field trips. Prerequisite: 45 units, including two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses; or permission of the field school director. Corequisite: ENGL 377. Students who participated in the English Department Field School in Italy prior to 1087 may not take this course for further credit.
A study of popular literature and its cultural contexts. May be defined by genre, author, period, or critical approach. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students with credit for ENGL 363 may not take this course for further credit.
The study of selected works of children's literature from different periods and places. The works will be considered in relation to literary theory, and may be organized by different critical issues or approaches. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses. Students with credit for ENGL 367 may not take this course for further credit.
The study of a selection of literary works in English, mainly from regions other than Canada, Britain and the United States. The course may focus on one or several literatures. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Studies a selection of literary works in English from the Asian Diaspora. May be organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. The historical and regional focus of the course will vary. Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, and two 200 division English courses.
Intensive study of several Old English poems. Prerequisite: ENGL 300. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Advanced study of specific aspects of Medieval literature. May be defined by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 304 or 306. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The study of selected dramatic works written in English prior to the Reformation. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Does not include Shakespeare. Prerequisite: one of ENGL 304, 306, 310, 311, 313, or 315. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The study of selected works of Early Modern poetry and prose written in English, and situated in their cultural context. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: one of ENGL 304, 306, 310, 311, 313 or 315. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The intensive study of selected works by John Milton, situated in their cultural context. Prerequisite: One of ENGL 304, 306, 310, 311, 313, or 315. Students who have taken ENGL 316 may not take this course for credit. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Addresses specific issues in 18th century literature in English. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 320 or 322. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Addresses specific issues in romantic literature in English. may be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 327. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Examines issues in Victorian literature and culture in a variety of genres and media from diverse geopolitical regions organized by various critical questions and approaches. Prerequisite: ENGL 330. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Explores issues across nineteenth century literature and culture in a variety of genres and media from diverse geopolitical regions organized by various critical questions and approaches. Prerequisite: ENGL 330 or 340. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Examines changes in society, culture and literature in the transition from the late-nineteenth to early-twentieth century, through a selection of works in a variety of genres and media from diverse geopolitical regions organized by various critical issues and approaches. Prerequisite: one of ENGL 330, 340, 347, or 354. Students who have taken ENGL 336 may not take this course for further credit. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Addresses issues in Modernism. May include Canadian, British, American and other literatures. Prerequisite: ENGL 340, 347, or 354. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Students who have taken ENGL 338 may not take this course for further credit. Writing.
The intensive study of selected works of British literature written after 1945. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 342. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, two 200 division English courses and two 300 division English courses. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students.  Admission is by permission of the instructor and the Department.
Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, two 200 division English courses and two 300 division English courses. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Admission is by permission of the instructor and the department.
Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, two 200 division English courses, and two 300 division English courses. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Admission is by permission of the instructor and the department.
Prerequisite: two 100 division English courses, two 200 division English courses and two 300 division English courses. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Admission is by permission of the instructor and the department.
The intensive study of selected works of American literature written before 1900. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 347. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The intensive study of selected works of American literature written since 1900. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 349. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The intensive study of selected works of aboriginal writers. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The intensive study of selected works of North American poets and/or poetry theorists. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Advanced seminar in Canadian literature. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: one of ENGL 354, 357, or 359. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Investigates topics in Asian-Canadian and/or Asian-American literature. The course may vary according to theoretical, historical or geographical focus. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
First term of work experience in the English Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: normally 30 units with a CGPA of 3.0; credit or standing in any two of ENGL 101/101W, 102/102W, 103/103W, 104/104W, 105/105W and 199/199W, and two 200 division English courses: one of ENGL 201 or 203, and one of ENGL 205 or 206. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Second term of work experience in the English Co-operative Education Program. Units for this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of ENGL 461 and normally 45 units with CGPA of 3.0; credit or standing in any two of ENGL 101/101W, 102/102W, 103/103W, 104/104W, 105/105W, and 199/199W, and two 200 division English courses: one of ENGL 201 or 203, and one of ENGL 205 or 206. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Third term of work experience in the English Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of ENGL 462 and normally 60 units with CGPA of 3.0; credit or standing in any two of ENGL 101/101W, 102/102W, 103/103W, 104/104W, 105/105W, and 199/199W, and two 200 division English courses: one of ENGL 201 or 203, and one of ENGL 205 or 206. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Fourth term of work experience in the English Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of ENGL 463 and normally 75 units with CGPA of 3.0; credit or standing in any two of ENGL 101/101W, 102/102W, 103/103W, 104/104W, 105/105W, and 199/199W, and two 200 division English courses: one of ENGL 201 or 203, and one of ENGL 205 or 206. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Advanced seminar in literary theory. Prerequisite: ENGL 364. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Advanced seminar in drama. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Focussed studies within linguistic, pragmatic, historical and social theories of the English language. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
An advanced seminar-workshop in the theory and practice of poetry and/or fiction. The emphasis of the course may vary from term to term. Prerequisite: ENGL 372 or 374.
Seminar in a particular topic, approach, or author in the field of rhetoric and writing. Prerequisite: ENGL 214 and one 300 division English course; or ENGL 375. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Investigates interconnections between literature and culture through the study of selected texts. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Investigates and theorizes the relation of literature and media (manuscript, print, visual, aural, electronic, and/or oral). Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The study of selected literary works as they intersect with and are shaped by issues of gender and sexuality. May be organized by theme, critical approach, historical period, or individual author. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Advanced seminar in children's literature. May be organized by author, genre, or critical approach. Prerequisite: ENGL 387. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
The intensive study of a selection of literary works in English, mainly from regions other than Canada, Britain and the United States. The course may focus on one or several literatures or individual, authors, and will be organized according to specific critical methodologies. Prerequisite: one 300 division English course. Reserved for English honors, major, joint major and minor students. Writing.
Introduces students enrolled in the English honors program to the basic methodological issues and procedures that define the field, and provides them with the opportunity to work with a faculty supervisor in researching a specific topic for their honors graduating essay. Prerequisite: permission of the department, plus normally a minimum of 90 units, including credit or standing in two 100 division English courses, two 200 division English courses, and four 300 or 400 division English courses, one of which must be ENGL 364.
Prerequisite: lower division requirements for the English major. Open only to students who have been accepted into the English honors program, and who have completed ENGL 494.
Provides a detailed and contextual overview of critical debates in twentieth-century literary and cultural theory. The critical lineage explored will vary according to theoretical focus.
Explores specific critical issues, approaches, or movements in literary and cultural theory. The course will vary according to theoretical and historical focus.
Introduces the history of print culture along with a variety of theoretical approaches. Students enrolled in the Print Culture program are required to take this course.
Explores critical issues, approaches, or movements in manuscript, print, and media culture. The course will vary according to geographical and historical focus and theoretical approach.
Examines selected works of Shakespeare, organized by critical issues or theoretical approaches. Prerequisite: acceptance into the Department of English MA program.
Examines selected medieval works in a variety of genres from Britain and Europe, organized by critical issues or theoretical approaches. May include works in a variety of media and study texts in the original language or in translation.
Examines selected works of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries organized by critical issues or theoretical approaches. May include some writing from outside Britain.
Examines selected eighteenth-century works in a variety of genres organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in a variety of media and from diverse geopolitical regions.
Examines selected nineteenth-century works in a variety of genres organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in a variety of media and from diverse geopolitical regions.
Examines selected twentieth-century works in a variety of genres, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in various media and explore Canadian, British, American and other literatures.
Examines selected contemporary literary works in a variety of genres, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in various media and explore Canadian, British, American and other literatures.
Examines selected works of American literature in a variety of genres, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, theoretical approaches, or historical periods. May include works in various media, and explore relations between American and other national or regional literatures.
Examines selected works of Canadian literature in a variety of genres, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, theoretical approaches, or historical periods. May include works in various media, and explore relations among Canadian, Quebec, American, British, World literatures.
Examines selected works of British literature in a variety of genres, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in various media. The historical and geographical focus of the course will vary.
Examines selected colonial, national, and diasporic literatures in a variety of genres, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in various media. The historical and geographical focus of the course will vary.
Examines selected Aboriginal writings in a variety of forms and contexts, organized by cultural movements, critical issues, or theoretical approaches. May include works in various media, and explore relations between Aboriginal and relevant national literatures. The historical and regional focus of the course will vary.
Examines the debates and interconnections among globalization, literature, and culture. May explore other media in relation to globalization. The course will vary according to theoretical and historical focus.
Investigates interconnections between literature and popular culture through a variety of texts. The course will vary according to theoretical and critical approach, selection of media, and geographical and historical focus.
Investigates intersections among gender, sexuality, and literature in a variety of writings and cultural contexts. The course will vary according to theoretical and critical approach, selection of media, and geographical and historical focus.
Examines postcolonial theories and literatures in a variety of genres. The course will vary according to critical approach, selection of media, and geographical and historical focus.
Examines theories of poetic production and issues related to the history and distribution of poetry through literary communities. May emphasize active practice alongside theories of poetic production, and may also draw upon the resources of the SFU Library's Contemporary Literature Collection. The historical and geographical focus of the course will vary.
Focuses on the study and application of rhetorical theories. May include theories and topics in writing and composition.
Specific topics will vary from offering to offering.
Specific topics will vary from offering to offering.
Specific topics will vary from offering to offering.
Specific topics will vary from offering to offering.
Specific topics will vary from offering to offering.
No description available
A professional seminar that provides students with a grounding in pedagogy and introduces professional aspects of English studies. Course will be graded Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory.
A professional seminar that provides students with a grounding in pedagogy and introduces professional aspects of English studies. Course will be graded Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
This course is designed to provide an introduction to the practice of engineering, surveying its history and its current state. The social and political aspects of engineering decisions will be illustrated by a number of case studies. Corequisite: ENSC 101. Breadth-Humanities/Science .
This course is designed to provide an introduction to the practice of engineering, surveying its history and its current state. The social and political aspects of engineering decisions will be illustrated by a number of case studies. Corequisite: ENSC 101. Writing/Breadth-Humanities/Science
This course provides a general introduction to the principles of effective communication with special emphasis on the writing process, persuasive writing, research papers, and oral presentations. In conjunction with ENSC 100, the course also explores current social and ethical issues in engineering. Corequisite: ENSC 100.
This course provides a general introduction to the principles of effective communication with special emphasis on the writing process, persuasive writing, research papers, and oral presentations. In conjunction with ENSC 100, the course also explores current social and ethical issues in engineering. Corequisite: ENSC 100. Writing.
The major focus of this course is on the style and format of technical writing with attention to laboratory reports and project documentation. This course also examines resumes, cover letters, interview skills and formal reports to help students prepare for their first internship term. Corequisite: PHYS 131.
The fundamentals of graphical communication in order to help students think and communicate visually in the context of engineering design. The course focuses on concepts such as isometric, multi-view sketches, section view, and auxiliary views, tolerancing and dimensioning, as well as fundamentals of schematics and printed circuit boards design. Various computer aided design software are used. Students with credit for ENSC 104 cannot take ENSC 204 for further credit. ENSC 104 fulfills the requirements of ENSC 204, but ENSC 204 does not fulfill the requirements of ENSC 104.
The course teaches fundamentals of informative and persuasive communication for professional engineers and computer scientists in order to assist students in thinking critically about various contemporary technical, social, and ethical issues. It focuses on communicating technical information clearly and concisely, managing issues of persuasion when communicating with diverse audiences, presentation skills, and teamwork.  Corequisite: CMPT 106 or ENSC 106. This course is identical to CMPT 105W and students cannot take both for credit. This course is equivalent to ENSC 101W and ENSC 102W combined. Students with credit for this course cannot take ENSC 101W or ENSC 102W for further credit. Writing.
Reviews the different modes of thought characteristic of science, engineering and computing. Examines the histories and chief current research issues in these fields. Considers the ethical and social responsibilities of engineering and computing work. Corequisite: ENSC 105W or CMPT 105W. Students who have taken ENSC 100 cannot take this course for credit. ENSC 106 is identical to CMPT 106 and students cannot take both for credit.
Digital design concepts are presented in such a way that students will learn how basic logic blocks of a simple computer are designed. Topics covered include: system of binary numbers, Boolean Algebra, combinational logic design, sequential logic design, and basic Von Neumann computer architecture. Students with credit for CMPT 150 or 290 cannot take this course for further credit. CMPT 150 can be substituted for this course. Quantitative.
First year project course designed to provide students with a first exposure to the challenges of project organization. Students are responsible for designing and constructing a mechanical robot optimized to solve a particular chosen task. The engineering challenges of the project are expected to focus half on mechanical design and half on control algorithm design and implementation.
Four month internship of a non-technical nature. May be taken at any point during the program but will not count toward one of the three mandatory co-op work terms. Credit is awarded as in ENSC 195. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.
First four month internship in industry. Credit is given as pass/withdraw/fail (P/W/F) only, based on the employer's and co-operative education co-ordinator's evaluations. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.
Four month internship in industry or university research environment. Credit is awarded as in ENSC 195. Prior approval of Internship Co-ordinator required. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.
This course covers the business, management and entrepreneurial concepts that are important to engineers who manage projects, run businesses, or need to decide on the most efficient method for accomplishing a task. The topics to be covered include: financial accounting, rates of return, taxes, cost-benefit analyses, marketing, financing methods, and business plans. Prerequisite: 45 units.
An introduction to the use of graphical communication in engineering. Objectives are to improve the students' literacy in the use of graphics to communicate engineering information, and their ability to visualize and to think in three dimensions. Specific application areas discussed include 2D and 3D geometry in mechanical drawing, electronics-related drawings, block diagrams, and flow charts. The use of CAD tools will be discussed, and demonstrations of some tools will be provided.
A common microcontroller will be presented such that students will be able to create a small project by interfacing with a variety of devices using assembly language. Topics include: the central processing unit (CPU) and memory, how the CPU executes machine code in the memory, how the programming task is simplified by the use of an assembler, the operation of the stack, writing subroutines, interfacing with input/output devices, and handling interrupts. Coding, testing, debugging, and other laboratory techniques will be introduced as needed. Prerequisite: ENSC 150 and CMPT 128. CMPT 128 can be taken concurrently. Students who have taken ENSC 151 cannot take this course for further credit.
This course will cover the following topics: fundamental electrical circuit quantities, and circuit elements; circuits laws such as Ohm law, Kirchoff's voltage and current laws, along with series and parallel circuits; operational amplifiers; network theorems; nodal and mesh methods; analysis of natural and step response of first (RC and RL), as well as second order (RLC) circuits; real, reactive and rms power concepts. In addition, the course will discuss the worker safety implications of both electricity and common laboratory practices such as soldering. Prerequisite: PHYS 121 and 131, or PHYS 126 and 131, or PHYS 141, and MATH 232 and 310. MATH 232 and/or 310 may be taken concurrently. Students with credit for ENSC 125 cannot take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
The essential physics of silicon semiconductor devices that form the heart of integrated circuits today. An introduction to semiconductor device physics upon which device models are based leading to the development of the drift-diffusion equations. The static and dynamic behavior of PN junction diodes, bipolar junction transistors, and field effect transistors will be covered along with the application of the developed device models to integrated circuit design. Prerequisite: ENSC 220 or equivalent. Students who have taken PHYS 365 cannot take this course for further credit.
This course teaches analog/digital electronics and basic device physics in the context of modern silicon integrated circuits technology. Topics include: qualitative device physics and terminal characteristics; implementations and models of basic semiconductor devices (diodes, BJTs and MOSFETs); circuit simulation via SPICE; basic diode circuits; transistors as amplifiers and switching elements; temperature effects and compensation; single-stage transistor amplifiers; biasing, current sources and mirrors. Prerequisite: ENSC 150 or CMPT 150, and ENSC 220. Quantitative.
Introduces the basic electronic components, amplifiers, diodes, and oscillators. Fundamentals of logic design. Prerequisite: ENSC 220. Students who have taken this course may not take ENSC 225 for further credit.
This course presents the elements and principles involved in design and analysis of basic mechanical structures and mechanisms. Mechanical elements such as gears, cams and bearings and fundamental relationships between the forces and corresponding motion or deflection are investigated through examples and experiments. This background can then be used in the design, analysis and development of computer controlled machines such as robotic devices. Prerequisite: PHYS 120, MATH 310.
Materials, their structures, properties and performance; crystal structures and instruments for structure determination; polymers, ceramics, and composites; quality control and reliability. Prerequisite: CHEM 120 or 121; PHYS 140 or 121. Students who have taken ENSC 330 may not take this course for further credit.
This course deals with the main concepts embodied in computer hardware architecture. In particular, the organization, design and limitations of the major building blocks in modern computers is covered in detail. Topics will include: processor organization; control logic design; memory systems; and architectural support for operating systems and programming languages. A hardware description language will be used as a tool to express and work with design concepts. Prerequisite: CMPT 150 or ENSC 150. This course is identical to CMPT 250 and students cannot take both courses for credit. Quantitative.
Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum chair.
Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum chair.
An introduction to methods to collect and analyse engineering data. Topics include the Engineering data representation, Discrete and continuous probability density functions,  Engineering measurements, Error analysis, Introduction to sensor interfaces, Introduction to physical sensors, Introduction to sensor signal conditioning, Noise, Test of hypotheses, Linear and nonlinear regression, and Design of experiments. Prerequisite: PHYS 141 or equivalent.  MATH 150 or MATH 151. Students with credit for PHYS 231 cannot take this course for further credit. Students who have taken and passed ENSC 263 "Special Topics in ENSC: Engineering Measurement and Data Analysis" in Spring 2009 and Spring 2010 cannot take this course for further credit.
Covers basic concepts of mechanics, vectors. Statics of particles. Rigid bodies and force systems, equilibrium of rigid bodies. Analysis of trusses and frames. Distributed forces, centroids and moments of inertia. Friction. Internal shear and bending moments in beams. Strength of material: introduction to mechanical response of materials and stress-strain transformations. Virtual work and energy methods. Prerequisite: PHYS 140, MATH 152.
Planar and 3D motions kinematics and kinetics of rigid bodies and mechanisms; linkages, gears, cams; synthesis and analysis of mechanisms; consideration of the static and dynamic forces in machines; vibration analysis, response to shock, motion and force transmissibility, vibration isolation. Prerequisite: PHYS 140, MATH 152, and 310.
Physical properties of fluids and fundamental concepts in fluid mechanics. Hydrostatics. Conservation laws for mass, momentum and energy. Flow similarity and dimensional analysis as applied to engineering problems in fluid mechanics. Laminar and turbulent flow. Engineering applications such as flow measurement, flow in pipes and fluid forces on moving bodies. Prerequisite: PHYS 141, MATH 152, and 310.
Second four month internship in industry. Credit is awarded as in ENSC 195. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: ENSC 195 or 196.
Four month internship in industry or university research environment. Credit is awarded as in ENSC 195. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: ENSC 195 or 196 and approval of internship co-ordinator required.
Directed reading and research in a topic chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Admission requires agreement by a proposed faculty supervisor and submission of a proposal to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. Upon completion of a directed study course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: a minimum of 70 units and permission of the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee.
The user is often overlooked in the engineer's quest for a functional and efficient design. This course examines the factors that make designs more or less usable and how to integrate usability constraints and testing procedures into the design process.
This course is integrated with an ENSC project course (either ENSC 340 or 440) that provides practical experience with the design process for development projects. Topics include project management, team writing, project documentation (proposals, functional and design specifications, progress reports, and users manuals), group dynamics and dispute resolution. Corequisite: ENSC 440 or 441.
This course is integrated with an ENSC project course (either ENSC 340 or 440) that provides practical experience with the design process for development projects. Topics include project management, team writing, project documentation (proposals, functional and design specifications, progress reports, and users manuals), group dynamics and dispute resolution. Corequisite: ENSC 440 or 441. Writing.
Provides fundamentals of the business, management and entrepreneurial concepts important to Canadian engineers who manage projects, run businesses, or need to decide on the most efficient method for accomplishing a task. Topics include the Canadian business environment, theories of management thought, forms of ownership, corporate structure and growth, the process of management - planning, organization theory, motivation, control and communication. Additional topics include financial accounting, rates of return, taxes, cost-benefit analysis, marketing, financing methods, and business plan. Prerequisite: students must have completed a minimum of 75 units. Students who have taken this course may not take ENSC 201 for further credit.
Offered in conjunction with ENSC 384 Mechatronics Design II. Concepts covered include project management skills such as budgeting, scheduling earned value analysis as well as facilitation, communication and negotiation. Students will experience what it is like to be part of a diverse project team while working on a specific project. The business topics covered in ENSC 311 are reinforced in this course. These topics include financial accounting, rates of return, taxes, cost-benefit analysis, marketing, financing methods, and business plan. Prerequisite: ENSC 311. Corequisite: ENSC 384.
This course is a second course on electric circuits and the topics covered include: the use of Laplace transform in circuit analysis, including poles and zeros, the frequency response and impulse response; convolution as a method for computing circuit responses; resonant and bandpass circuits; magnetically coupled circuits; three-phase circuits; two port circuits; and filtering. Prerequisite: ENSC 220.
This course introduces Students to analog integrated circuit design in the context of modern silicon integrated circuits technology. Topics included: integrated circuit technology and design tools; integrated component characteristics and limitations, differential amplifiers; multi stage amplifiers; feedback amplifiers; stability and frequency compensation; integrated operational amplifiers; bipolar and MOS digital circuits; analog aspects of digital electronics. Prerequisite: ENSC 225.
This course represents and introduction to analog and digital communications systems. The main topics are: a review of Fourier Transform; the representation of bandpass signals; random signals in communications, including stationarity, ergodicity, correlation, power spectra and noise; amplitude and frequency modulation; circuits and techniques for modulation and demodulation; frequency division multiplexing; baseband digital communication; time division and multiplexing; an introduction to basic digital modulation schemes such as BPSK, FSK and QPSK. Laboratory work is included in this course. Prerequisite: ENSC 380 and STAT 270.
An introduction to continuous-valued random processes, including first and second order statistics. Topics: definitions of random processes taking complex values in continuous time; autocorrelation and autocovariance functions in the time domain; stationarity, ergodicity; power spectral density in frequency domain; effect of linear filters; cross correlation functions and cross-power spectral densities. Prerequisite:  ENSC 380 and STAT 270. STAT 270 may be taken concurrently. Students who have taken ENSC 327 may not take ENSC 328 for further credit.
Conveys the essential principles of digital logic systems which are the building blocks of many electronic systems including computer systems. These principles form the basis of the electronics component of the mechatronics curriculum and therefore a good understanding of the material is crucial. Prerequisite: ENSC 226, CMPT 128.
An introductory course in materials science which covers materials  their structures, properties, and performance; crystal structures and instruments for structure determination; polymers, ceramics, composites; quality control and reliability. Prerequisite: CHEM 121, PHYS 121.
An introduction to microelectromechanical systems, covering thin film processing technologies, bulk and surface micromachining, and MEMS applications. Prerequisite: ENSC 282, 283, 226.
Covers basic microcomputer architecture, design and analysis of address decoders and memory systems, design and analysis of assembly language programs and microcomputer system design. Prerequisite: ENSC 329.
This course deals with advanced topics in digital design such as advanced state machine concepts, asynchronous design, hardware description languages, bus interfacing and DSP architecture. It also covers both the architecture and programming of field programmable logic devices. Some laboratory work is expected. Prerequisite: ENSC 215, and either ENSC 250 or CMPT 250.
This course concentrates on the problems encountered when attempting to use computers in real time (RT) and embedded applications where the computer system must discern the state of the real world and react to it within stringent response time constraints. Both design methodology and practical implementation techniques for RT systems are presented. Although some hardware will be involved, it should be noted that this course concentrates on real time software. Prerequisite: CMPT 128, and either CMPT 250 or ENSC 250,  and a minimum of 60 units. ENSC 215 is highly recommended. Students who have taken ENSC 451 cannot take this course for further credit.
Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum chair.
Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum chair.
An overview of the discipline of biomedical engineering, including its purpose and scope. Typical discussion topics: goals and limitations of biomedical engineering, the nature and relevant technologies of selected application areas, common aspects of biomedical practice, current trends and new directions in biomedical engineering. Students conduct extended investigations of biomedical practice, new biomedical techniques or possible new products, then prepare reports and present seminars. Prerequisite: completion of at least 25 units of engineering science (ENSC) courses and KIN 208. KIN 208 can be taken concurrently.
Instrumentation techniques for measuring common physiological signals. Bioelectric and biochemical sensors. Biostimulation. Electronic design issues: electrical safety, signal conditioning and protection against noise, digital signal acquisition. Live subject ethical considerations. Laboratory work to include use of data acquisition packages in conjunction with various sensors, as well as design and construction of a full signal acquisition chain, from sensor to RAM. Prerequisite: ENSC 225, 320, 380 and KIN 308. KIN 308 can be taken concurrently.
Provides an understanding of the scientific principles, physics and engineering technology that provide the basis for the various techniques (radiography, sonography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging), by which medical images are acquired. Prerequisite: ENSC 220, 225. Recommended: ENSC 224.
In this course students learn basic of designing optical instruments. Lectures cover the principles of operation of optical devices using linear (ray) optics and Fourier optics as well as optical metrology. Hands-on practice is provided by extensive laboratory activities. Prerequisite: PHYS 121, MATH 254.
The objectives of this course are to cover the modelling and analysis of continuous and discrete signals using linear techniques. Topics covered include: a review of Laplace transforms; methods for the basic modelling of physical systems; discrete and continuous convolution; impulse and step response; transfer functions and filtering; the continuous Fourier transform and its relationship to the Laplace transform; frequency response and Bode plots; sampling; the Z-transform. Prerequisite: ENSC 220 and MATH 310.
Introduction to systems modeling and analysis. Application to engineering systems including: mechanical, electrical, thermal, and fluid systems. Allows the student to acquire, in a time-efficient and uncomplicated manner, knowledge in the formation and construction of dynamic models. The simulation models that the student will design in this course accommodate these analyses, with the construction of realistic hypotheses and elaborate behavior models. Prerequisite: ENSC 226, 281, 282, 283, MATH 251. Corequisite: PHYS 344.
Review of stress and strain in solids, superposition, energy theorems, theories of failure, elastic and ineleastic analysis of symmetrical bending, torsion of circular members, and virtual work. Adequacy assessment and synthesis of machine elements with a focus on the design process. Static failure of ductile and brittle materials, fatigue analysis of structures. Topics include the design of welds, bolted connections, springs and shafts. Solution strategies include both analytical and finite element methods. Prerequisite, ENSC 281 and 282.
This course is an introduction to the analysis, design, and applications of continuous time linear control systems. Topics include transfer function representation of open and closed loop systems, time domain specifications and steady state error, sensitivity analysis, time and frequency response, and stability criteria. It includes a treatment of methods for the analysis of control systems based on the root locus, Bode plots and Nyquist criterion, and their use in the design of PID, and lead-lag compensation. Lab work is included in this course. Prerequisite: ENSC 380.
Interweaves mechanisms, electronics, sensors, and control strategies with software and information technology to examine the demands and ideas of customers and find the most efficient, cost-effective method to transform their goals into successful commercial products. Most of the term is devoted to a significant design project in which student groups work independently and competitively, applying the design process to a project goal set by the faculty co-ordinator. Prerequisite: ENSC 382, 381, and 182. ENSC 312, 332 and 387 can either be taken as prerequisites or concurrently.
This course provides an introduction to sensors and actuators for electromechanical, computer-controlled machines and devices. Topics include operating principles, design considerations, and applications of analog sensors, digital transducers, stepper motors, continuous-drive actuators, and drive system electronics. Component integration and design considerations are studied through examples selected from applications of machine tools, mechatronics, precision machines, robotics, aerospace systems, and ground and underwater vehicles. Laboratory exercises strengthen the understanding of component performance, system design and integration. Prerequisite: ENSC 380.
Energy transfer as work and heat, the First Law of thermodynamics. Properties and states of simple substances. Control-mass and control-volume analyses. Entropy, the Second Law of thermodynamics. Carnot cycle. Energy conversion systems; internal combustion engines, power plants and refrigeration cycles. Heat transfer by conduction, convection, and radiation. Formulation and solution of steady and transient problems. Cooling of microelectronics, thermal solutions. Prerequisite: MATH 152, 251, PHYS 141. Students with credit for PHYS 344 cannot take this course for further credit.
Third four month internship in industry. Credit is awarded as in ENSC 195.  Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: ENSC 295 or 296 and a minimum of 75 units.
Four month internship in industry or university research environment. Approved entrepreneurial projects will also be accepted. Credit is awarded as in ENSC 195. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: ENSC 295 or 296, a minimum of 75 units and approval of internship co-ordinator required.
Directed reading and research in a topic chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Admission requires agreement by a proposed faculty supervisor and submission of a proposal to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. Upon completion of a directed study course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: a minimum of 100 units and permission of the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee.
Directed reading and research in a topic chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Admission requires agreement by a proposed faculty supervisor and submission of a proposal to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. Upon completion of a directed study course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: a minimum of 100 units and permission of the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee.
Directed reading and research in a topic chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Admission requires agreement by a proposed faculty supervisor and submission of a proposal to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. Upon completion of a directed study course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: a minimum of 100 units and permission of the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee.
Directed reading and research in a topic chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Admission requires agreement by a proposed faculty supervisor and submission of a proposal to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. Upon completion of a directed study course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: a minimum of 100 units and permission of the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee.
This course provides an introduction to the engineering profession, professional practice, engineering law and ethics, including the issues of worker and public safety.  It also offers opportunities to explore the social implications and environmental impacts of technologies, including sustainability, and to consider engineers' responsibility to society. Prerequisite: 100 units or permission of the instructor.
This course covers the technical basis for multimedia communications systems. The main topics are as follows: methods for audio and visual signal compression and processing; the communications requirements of multimedia systems, such as synchronization, quality of service and bandwidth; the architectures and protocols associated with multimedia communications networks. Prerequisite: ENSC 380.
The principles and processes involved in designing analog circuits, emphasizing the functional blocks that comprise subsystems of a larger analog signal processing system. Topics include linear and nonlinear amplifiers, active filters, signal generators, signal modulators, switchmode power converters and analog/digital data conversion. The effects of non-ideal aspects of IC operational amplifiers on system performance are discussed and verified using laboratory projects. Students should be familiar with the behaviour and application of discrete semiconductor devices. Prerequisite: ENSC 320, 325 and 380.
Transmission lines and waveguides, microwave devices, travelling wave devices. An introduction to the theory of radiation, antennae and wave propagation, and microwave scattering theory. The design of complete communication systems incorporating microwave, optical and satellite channels. Laboratory work is included in this course. Prerequisite: PHYS 221 or 321.
Quantitative performance analysis and design of data and integrated services networks. Re-transmission error recovery schemes, networks of queues, congestion control, routing strategies. Multiple access techniques in data networks, design for specified throughput and delay performance. Wireless networks, routing approaches in mobile networks. Analysis and design of broadband integrated services digital networks, asynchronous time division multiplexing. Laboratory work is included in this course. Prerequisite: ENSC 327 or permission of instructor.
This course will cover the physical-layer design issues in digital communication systems. The major topics covered are: information measures and the notion of channel capacity; link budgets; digital modulation techniques, including the signal space concept and optimal detectors, error performance in noise, suboptimal detectors, pulse shaping, synchronization, and equalization; error control techniques such as block and conventional codes, as well as comparisons between FEC and ARQ. Laboratory work is included in this course. Prerequisite: ENSC 327.
Discrete time signals and systems, sampling and quantization. The Discrete Fourier Transform and fast transforms. Digital filters, IIR and FIR, design procedures and implementations. Quantization noise in digital filters and transforms. Random signals, the response to linear systems to random signals. Introduction to adaptive systems. Introduction to system architectures for digital signal processing. Laboratory work includes familiarization with digital signal processing software packages. Prerequisite: ENSC 327 or 328, and 380.
This capstone design course is based around a group project that consists of researching, designing, building, and testing the hardware implementation of a working system. The course also includes material on how to design for safety, engineering standards, and human factors. Prerequisite: at least 100 units. Corequisite: ENSC 305. Students with credit for ENSC 340 cannot take ENSC 440 for further credit.
This capstone design course is based around a group project that consists of research, designing, building, and testing the hardware implementation of a working system. The course also includes material on how to design for safety, engineering standards, and human factors. Prerequisite: at least 100 units. Corequisite: ENSC 305. Students with credit for ENSC 340 cannot take ENSC 440 for further credit. Writing.
Students will combine their technical, marketing, and entrepreneurship knowledge to conceive, and design a product. Also includes project documentation and project management. At the end of the term a comprehensive report is required. Prerequisite: ENSC 312 and 100 units. Corequisite: ENSC 305.
Students will apply their technical, marketing and entrepreneurship knowledge to develop a product that was designed earlier in ENSC 441. Students will then present and be able to see it to a panel of engineers, business and investment community members. Prerequisite: ENSC 441.
Students will apply their technical, marketing and entrepreneurship knowledge to develop a product that was designed earlier in ENSC 441. Students will then present and be able to see it to a panel of engineers, business and investment community members. Prerequisite: ENSC 441. Writing.
Students will apply their technical, marketing and entrepreneurship knowledge to develop a product that was designed earlier in ENSC 441. Students will then present and be able to see it to a panel of engineers, business and investment community members. Prerequisite:    ENSC 441.   Writing
An introduction to the design of Very Large Scale Integrated (VLSI) circuits and systems (System-on-Chip, SoC) using mainly CMOS technology. SoC design techniques and applications will be covered. Basic topics will include: CMOS technology and circuit layout rules; combinational and sequential logic; logic simulation; systems design; design for verification and testability; and embedded-processor design and application. An advanced digital design flow based on the VHDL hardware description language will be introduced and exercised in the labs. Prerequisite: ENSC 225 and ENSC 350.
Focuses on implementation and design of embedded computer control systems used in mechatronics and other applications. Many of these systems are real-time in nature, meaning that the computer system must discern the state of the world and react to it within stringent response-time constraints. Upon completion of the course, the student will have a basic understanding of how to design, build and integrate hardware and software for an embedded control application. Hands-on experience will be gained by performing laboratory experiments and doing an embedded computer control project on a mechatronic system. Prerequisite: ENSC 332, 383, and completion of 90 units. Students who have taken ENSC 351 cannot take this course for further credit.
Digital system design considerations including methodologies, specification, SoC partitioning, fault tolerance, design reuse, debugging and verification. Prerequisite: ENSC 350 and 351.
Studies in areas not included within the undergraduate course offerings of the engineering science program. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
Studies in areas not included within the undergraduate course offerings of the engineering science program. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
Studies in areas not included within the undergraduate course offerings of the engineering science program. Prerequisite: to be determined by the instructor subject to approval by the department chair.
A practical, hands-on introduction to optical engineering and lasers. Covers the concepts of light, optics (geometric optics, Gaussian optics, multiple optical elements, lens aberrations), laser concepts, operational details of major laser types, laser interactions with optical systems, laser applications in engineering and medicine, complex optical system design and fiber optics. Labs cover optical systems, lasers measurements, optical CAD design, holography. Prerequisite: PHYS 121 or 126 or 141, and MATH 310.
Provides students with exposure to essential topics in rehabilitation engineering and the design of assistive devices. The course is organized into weekly modules, each of which includes a basic patho-physiology component, an introduction to related rehabilitation engineering technology, and a laboratory/project component. All modules will provide students with (a) an understanding of the scientific basis for a specific area of rehabilitation engineering, (b) experience in the application of standard medical techniques for disability assessment, (c) exposure to biomechanical and physiological measurement techniques, (d) experience in the design (including ISO standards), construction, and evaluation of technological solutions to enhance mobility, communication, sensory function, cognition, and independence in daily activities. Prerequisite: ENSC 372, KIN 201, 308, 448.
Develops signal processing techniques of wide applicability, presented in the context of processing and analysis of biomedical images. Forms a sequel to the course ENSC 374, Introduction to Biomedical Imaging, which covers acquisition of medical images. The subsequent visualization, processing and analysis tools applied to multidimensional signals such as 2D/3D medical images are covered. Students will become proficient in several basic tools used in signal processing by looking at their multidimensional counterparts for image processing. Prerequisite: ENSC 380 and either ENSC 327 or ENSC 328.
Basic physics of light-biomatter interactions and tissue optics. With this background students will embark on practical issues such as light-induced effects in bio-systems, diagnostic techniques and instrumentation, therapeutic instrumentation and applications, introduction to optical tomography, and finally they will learn about recent developments in optical sensors and applications. Lectures are accompanied by laboratory activities ending with a few basic evaluation projects and a final design and fabrication project. After this course the students will be able to evaluate feasibility of new photonic-based medical devices, such as diagnostic tools and light treatment technologies, and design and optimize these devices. Prerequisite: ENSC 376.
Aspects of quality control and reliability in manufacturing environments will be discussed, including stress and strain, failure modes, reliability testing, statistical and experimental methods, and destructive/non destructive testing. Prerequisite: ENSC 330.
Analytical representation of the finite dimensional linear systems, analysis and design of linear feedback control systems based on the state space model, and state/output feedback. Topics include: review of the linear spaces and operators, mathematical modelling, state space representation and canonical forms, controllability, observability, realization of transfer function, and solution of the state equation. Applications include: stability concepts and definitions. Lyapunov's Direct Method, design of the state and output feedback control systems, eigenspectrum assignment, and state estimator design. Prerequisite: ENSC 383.
Examines modern industrial control systems and applications. Topics include: review of industrial sensors and actuators; computer interfacing; ladder logic and programmable logic controllers; industrial computer and programming methods; industrial networks; human-machine interfaces; supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA); manufacturing execution systems; and enterprise-wide integration. Prerequisite: ENSC 332, 383.
Fundamentals of robotics: mathematical representation of kinematics, dynamics and compliance. Planning and execution of robot trajectories. Feedback from the environment: use of sensors and machine vision. A brief introduction to robot languages. Different application domains for manipulator robots, e.g., assembly, manufacturing, etc. Prerequisite: ENSC 383. Recommended: ENSC 230 is strongly recommended for Systems Option students.
Survey of methods for computer aided design and manufacturing (CAD/CAM), including experience with basic systems in the laboratory component of the course. The student will be introduced to computer integrated manufacturing and flexible manufacturing systems concepts. The use of finite element modeling and analysis will be presented through examples from thermal studies as well as mechanical stress analysis. Issues in constructing and using integrated CAD/CAM in a production environment will be discussed. Emphasis will be on the use of such techniques in light industry, particularly related to electronics manufacturing. A manufacturing cell consisting of several robots and computer control systems will be available for student projects. Prerequisite: ENSC 380.
This course is intended for students wishing to pursue laboratory research on a specific topic outside the standard course offerings. Each student must be sponsored by a faculty member who will oversee the project. A proposal of the student's special project must be submitted to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. The unit value of the project will be assessed during this review phase and the student will be directed to enrol in the appropriate course. Upon completion of a special project laboratory course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum committee chair.
This course is intended for students wishing to pursue laboratory research on a specific topic outside the standard course offerings. Each student must be sponsored by a faculty member who will oversee the project. A proposal of the student's special project must be submitted to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. The unit value of the project will be assessed during this review phase and the student will be directed to register in the appropriate course. Upon completion of a special project laboratory course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum committee chair.
This course is intended for students wishing to pursue laboratory research on a specific topic outside the standard course offerings. Each student must be sponsored by a faculty member who will oversee the project. A proposal of the student's special project must be submitted to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. The unit value of the project will be assessed during this review phase and the student will be directed to register in the appropriate course. Upon completion of a special project laboratory course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum committee chair.
This course is intended for students wishing to pursue laboratory research on a specific topic outside the standard course offerings. Each student must be sponsored by a faculty member who will oversee the project. A proposal of the student's special project must be submitted to the school at least one month prior to the start of the term in which the course will be taken. The unit value of the project will be assessed during this review phase and the student will be directed to register in the appropriate course. Upon completion of a special project laboratory course, the student must submit a copy of the 'deliverables' to the chair of the undergraduate curriculum committee. Prerequisite: permission of the undergraduate curriculum committee chair.
Lectures provide the theory of integrated circuit fabrication. Students fabricate diodes, transistors and test structures in the laboratory. Topics: clean room practice, thermal oxidation and diffusion, photolithography, thin film deposition, etching, ion implantation, packaging, CMOS and bipolar processes. Prerequisite: ENSC 225 or 226, and permission of the instructor.
Supervised study, research and preliminary work leading to a formal proposal for the thesis project work in ENSC 499. This activity can be directly augmented by other course work and by directed study. The locale of the work may be external to the University or within a University laboratory, or may bridge the two locations. Supervision may be by technical personnel at an external organization, or by faculty members, or through some combination. At least one of the supervisors must be a registered professional engineer. A plan for the student's ENSC 498 activities must be submitted to the school at the time of enrolment in the course. Completion of the undergraduate thesis project proposal is the formal requirement of this course and the basis upon which it is graded. Grading will be on a pass/fail basis. Prerequisite: at least 115 units or permission of the academic supervisor.
A thesis is based on the research or  development project that incorporates a significant level of engineering design. This work is typically undertaken in the student's final year, but in no case before the student has completed 115 units. Registration for ENSC 499 takes place in the term in which the thesis will be presented and defended. The locale of the work, supervision and other arrangements follow those for ENSC 498. Grading of the thesis will be on a pass/fail basis, but recognition will be given to outstanding work. Prerequisite: ENSC 498.
State-space analysis of finite dimensional continuous and discrete time linear systems. Linear vector spaces, linear operators, normed linear spaces, and inner product spaces. Fundamentals of matrix algebra; generalized inverses, solution of Ax=y and AXB=Y, least square and recursive least square estimation, induced norm and matrix measures, functions of a square matrix, Cayley-Hamilton and Sylvester's theorems, Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) with applications. Analytical representation of linear systems, state-space formulation, solution of the state equation and determination of the system's response. Controllability, observability, duality, canonical forms, and minimal realization concepts. Stability analysis and the Lyapunov's method. Prerequisite: graduate standing.
The application of theories in probability, random variables and stochastic processes in the analysis and modelling of engineering systems. topics include: a review of probability and random variables; random deviate generation; convergence of random sequences; random processes; auto correlation and power spectral-density; linear systems with stochastic inputs; mean-square calculus; AR and ARMA models; Markov chains; elementary queuing theory; an introduction to estimation theory. Areas of application include digital communications, speech and image processing, control, radar and Monte Carlo simulations. Prerequisite: graduate standing.
Through discourse analysis and simulation of the publication process, ENSC 803 enables the analysis and refinement of writing processes and written styles when preparing journal articles, oral conference presentations, and poster presentations in professional contexts. Students will write and revise an article suitable for publication in a professional journal, design a poster presentation, and design and deliver an oral conference presentation. Additionally, students will blind review a peer's journal article and will participate in a series of team-based discourse analysis exercises. ENSC 803 will also cover departmental requirements and University regulations related to thesis completion and submission. This course will not count towards the student's CGPA but will appear as a grade on the transcript. This course cannot be used as one of the course requirements towards the degree.
This course discusses the fundamental techniques used in the physical layer of a digital communication system. The main topics are as follow: digital modulation, including complex baseband representations, the concept of the signal space, optimal demodulation, bit error probability analysis, as well as timing and carrier recovery; error control techniques, including soft decision decoding and the Viterbi algorithms; and various kinds of equalization (linear, decision feedback, and maximum likelihood sequences estimation). Sub topics of the equalization section include pulse shaping and eye diagrams. The emphasis may vary slightly in different offerings. Prerequisite: ENSC 428 or equivalent. Corequisite: ENSC 802  or permission of instructor.
This course first overviews the characteristics of spread-spectrum systems (S3) in view of the trade-off between signal bandwidth and benefits that result from wideband signaling. The basic S3 techniques such as direct-sequence (DS), frequency-hopping (FH), time-hopping (TH), and hybrid of above, are introduced and compared in details. A performance consideration is given for the DS and FH cases to illustrate the processing gain with respect to narrowband signaling in the presence of interference and jamming. Next, it covers all aspects of spread-spectrum transmission over a physical multiple-access channel: signal generation, synchronization, modulation, and error-correcting coding of spread spectrum multiple access, known as CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access), signals. It relates these physical layer functions to link and network layer properties involving cellular coverage, Erlang capacity, and network control. Prerequisite: ENSC 802 or permission of instructor.
Information measures: entropy, relative entropy, mutual information, entropy rate, differential entropy. Asymptotic Equipartition Property. Lossless data compression: Kraft inequality, Huffman code, Shannon code, Arithmetic coding. Channel capacity: binary symmetric channel, binary erasure channel, Shannon's channel coding theorem, Gaussian channel, feedback. Prerequisite: STAT 270 or equivalent.
Processing techniques for continuous and discrete signals with initially unknown or time-varying characteristics. Parameter estimation; Bayes, MAP, maximum likelihood, least squares the Cramer-Rao bound. Linear estimation, prediction, power spectrum estimation, lattice filters. Adaptive filtering by LMS and recursive least squares. Kalman filtering. Eigenmethods for spectral estimation. Implementation issues and numerical methods of computation are considered throughout. Prerequisite: ENSC 802 and 429 or their equivalents.
An advanced digital signal processing course. Topics include: sampling rate conversion; multirate and polyphase representations and implementations; multirate filter banks and the discrete wavelet transform; modulated filter banks. Applications are drawn from areas such as transmultiplexing, echo suppression, signal compression and modulation. Prerequisite: ENSC 429 or equivalent.
This course focuses on the management and reporting activities of typical engineering development projects. Through seminars and workshops it builds the student's skills at estimating project cost and schedule, keeping a project on track, and handing over the completed project to a customer or another team. A writing workshop emphasizes techniques for writing proposals, and writing and controlling documentation. Note that ENSC 820 will not count towards the course work requirement of students enrolled in the MASc and PhD programs.
Propagation phenomena, modulation techniques and system design considerations for mobile and personal networks. Topics include: fading and shadowing, noise and interference effects, analog and digital transmission, cellular designs, multiple access techniques. Prerequisite: ENSC 802 or permission of instructor.
This course covers the techniques needed to understand and analyse modern communications networks. The main topics are as follow: practical techniques for the design and performance analysis of data communication networks; performance analysis of error control, flow and congestion control, and routing; networks of queues using stochastic and mean value analysis; polling and random access LANs and MANs; wireless networks; broadband integrated services digital networks and asynchronous transfer mode; optical networks. Prerequisite: ENSC 802 or permission of instructor.
This course discusses modern fibre optics communication systems. The major topics to be covered are as follow: the analysis of optical transmission media, including multimode and single mode technology; bandwidth limitations imposed by dispersive behavior of fibre; modified fibre profiles for third generation fibre communication systems; solitons; semiconductor laser diodes; external modulation; PIN photo diodes and avalanche photo detectors; bandwidth and noise limitations; optical amplifiers; semiconductor laser amplifiers; doped fibre amplifiers; optical receiver and transmitter circuits; quantum limited receiver performance; BER performance; optical communication networks.
Techniques needed to understand and analyze modern data communications networks. Basic architecture of packet networks and their network elements (switches, routers, bridges), and the protocols used to enable transmission of packets through the network. Techniques for collection, characterization, and modeling of traffic in packet networks. Aspects of traffic management, such as call admission control and congestion control algorithms in packet networks and the influence of traffic on network performance. Prerequisite: ENSC 427 or permission of the instructor.
Detailed treatment at the graduate level of semiconductor fundamentals and theory. Electronic properties and characteristics of selected semiconductor devices: pn junctions, Schottky barrier junctions, silicon-based heterojunctions and ohmic contacts; bipolar junction transistors; field effect transistors; heterostructures; charge coupled devices and microwave devices. Prerequisite: PHYS 365 or permission of instructor.
Review of semiconductor physics. Technology of semiconductor devices and integrated circuits: material evaluation, crystal growth, doping, epitaxy, thermal diffusion, ion implantation, lithography and device patterning, and thin film formation. Design and fabrication of active and passive semiconductor devices, packaging techniques and reliability of integrated circuits.
Models for integrated circuit activity and passive devices and their implementation; computer aided design tools and their use in designing analog integrated circuits; analysis of single transistor amplifiers; current sources, current mirrors, and voltage references; op-amps characteristics, analyses and circuit design examples; frequency response of integrated circuits; noise in integrated circuits; low power integrated circuits; non-linear analog integrated circuits. The students will be required to either design, fabricate and test simple analog ICs in the microelectronics lab, or do a project which involves the design, analysis, modeling and simulation of an analog integrated circuit. Prerequisite: ENSC 850 or permission of instructor.
MOS device electronics. Second Order Effects in MOS transistors. BJT device electronics. Static and transient analysis of inverters. Digital gates, circuits and circuit techniques. Speed and power dissipation. Memory systems. Gate arrays, semicustom and customized integrated circuits. CAD tools. Students are required to complete a project.
Microelectronic transducer principles, classification, fabrication and application areas. Silicon micromachining and its application to integrated microelectronic sensors and actuators. CMOS compatible micromachining, static, dynamic and kinematic microactuator fabrication. Integrated transducer system design and applications. Students will be required to complete a micromachining project in the microfabrication lab at ENSC. Prerequisite: ENSC 370, 453, 495 or permission of instructor.
The course will present the physical concepts required to participate in (or gain appreciation for) the field of high performance, high speed semiconductor devices used in telecommunication systems. Topics include: basic semiconductor energy band structure, low and high field transport in semiconductors, ballistic transport, the depletion approximation and beyond, heterostructures, band line-ups, lattice mismatched heterostructures  strain as design parameter, charge recombination, operating principles of modern semiconductor devices such as SiGe or III-V HBTs, MESFETs/HEMTs, photodetectors, quantum well lasers.
The course will present the necessary tools and techniques required in the fabrication of compound semiconductor devices. Because of the wide disparity between III-V and silicon semiconductor devices, the course is orthogonal to the silicon device fabrication course ENSC 851. Topics to be covered include: basics of HBTs and HEMTs, elements of III-V compound semiconductor materials science, III-V substrate preparation and properties, doping of III-V compounds and amphoteric behavior, epitaxial growth by MBE, MOCVD, characterization of epitaxial layers, lithography: optical and electron beam, Schottky and ohmic contact formation, plasma processing techniques such as RIE and PECVD.
This course is targeted towards graduate level engineering students and covers major aspects of the electronic circuit design and device fabrication of digital imaging circuits and devices used in imaging applications stemming from silicon semiconductor technology. These integrated image sensors are appearing in a wide variety of applications ranging from amorphous silicon flat panel imagers for medical imaging to low cost, crystalline silicon integrated circuit cameras. Integrated image sensor technology offers the benefits of a cost-effective, imaging system capable of performing on-chip signal processing functions leading to higher image quality. Prerequisite: ENSC 224, or equivalent, ENSC 325 or equivalent.
Topics of relevance to the design of very large scale integrated (VLSI) circuits in CMOS technologies are covered. Key design techniques and fundamental limitations for high-speed computer and communication circuits are discussed. Most of the material will be presented through a series of case studies. The main topics are: CMOS technology, cell library design, memory design (SRAM, DRAM, ROM, PLA), arithmetic unit design, and embedded processor design. Parallelism, pipelining, and clocking are also discussed. Prerequisite: ENSC 450 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor.
This course introduces students to microdevices and systems with applications in biology, chemistry, and medicine. Topics include microfabrication techniques of biocompatible materials including polymers; microfluidic theory and components; electro-osmotic flow and separation techniques; system integration; and a selection of key applications including micro total analysis systems, cell and tissue applications, implantable/transdermal devices, biosensors, and biotechnology (PCR, DNA chips). Recommended, ENSC 330; ENSC 495/851 or ENSC 854.
This course presents basics of information theory and source coding with applications to speech/audio, images/video and multimedia. The course first covers the topics of entropy, information, channel capacity and rate-distortion functions. Various techniques used in source coding, such as entropy coding, scalar and vector quantization, prediction, transforms, analysis by synthesis, and model based coding are then discussed. Prerequisite: ENSC 802 or equivalent.
Review of finite dimensional linear systems represented in state space formulation. Bellman's principle of optimality and dynamic programming with applications to control of discrete and continuous time systems. Introduction to variational calculus, Pontryagin's maximum principle, Hamilton-Jacoby-Bellman Equation, and variational treatment of control problems. Several optimal control problems such as optimal linear quadratic regulator (LQR), optimal tracking and suboptimal output controllers will be discussed. Prerequisite: ENSC 483 or 801.
A main goal of computational robotics is to automatically synthesize robot motions to achieve a given task. This course discusses geometric and algorithmic issues that arise in such an endeavour. For example: how can a robot plan its own collision-free motions? How does it grasp a given object? How do we account for uncertainty? The course employs a broad range of  tools from computational geometry, mechanics, algorithms and control. The material covered also finds applications in designing devices for automation and in computer animation. The course involves a substantial project which exposes students to practical and implementational issues involved in building automatic motion planning capabilities for robotic systems. Prerequisite: ENSC 488 and a basic course in data structures and algorithms, or permission of the instructor.
Overview of FEM and its use in industry mathematical foundations of FEM; Galerkin method; finite element interpretation of physical problems in one, two and three dimensions; numerical techniques for storing and solving sparse matrices; checking for convergence, error estimation; pre- and post-processing; automatic mesh generation.
Robotic applications are extensively involved in various fields such as manufacturing and health care with new, efficient tools and methods having been developed for modelling and co-ordinating such devices. The main focus of this course is to introduce these tools and methods for kinematic and dynamic modelling approaches. These new approaches allow more intuitive and geometrical representation of motion and interaction in any articulated multi-body system such as robotics devices. The course offers valuable background for students involved in computer graphics (e.g. animation), human/machine interface (e.g. haptic interface), control engineers (e.g. trajectory planning, master/slave system) and robotic designers. The course involves individual projects in modelling and co-ordination of a robotic device. Prerequisite: introductory course in robotics (ENSC 488) or permission of the instructor.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Students who do not complete ENSC 897 in one term must enrol for this course in all subsequent terms.
No description available
No description available
No description available
A specific topic within the field of Environment not examined in depth in regular courses. This course will provide students with understanding, perspective and experience in emerging and important areas of environment.
A specific topic within the field of Environment not examined in depth in regular courses. This course will provide students with understanding, perspective and experience in emerging and important area of environment.
Introduces students to the concepts and methods of ecological economics. Provides students with grounding in the core principles of conventional economics applied to the environment but then extends this to the integration of economics and ecology to create a new ecological-economic understanding of environmental change and sustainability. Prerequisite:    Minimum of 45 units.  This course is identical to REM 321 and students cannot complete both for credit.
Independent study on environmental topics selected in consolations with the supervising instructor. A  directed study proposal must be completed and approved by the instructor, the home departmental advisor and the Faculty of Environment advisor prior to registration. Students may take this course only once. Variable units: 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8. Prerequisite:    60 units, 3.0 cumulative grade point average.
A specific topic within the field of Environment not examined in depth in regular courses. This course will provide students with understanding, perspective and experience in emerging and important areas of environment. Variable unit hours: 3 - 8 units.
Independent study on environmental topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. A directed study proposal must be completed and approved by the instructor, the home departmental advisor and the Faculty of Environment advisor prior to registration. Students may take this course only once. Variable units: 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8. Prerequisite:    60 units, 3.0 cumulative grade point average.
A specific topic within the field of Environment not examined in depth in regular courses. This course will provide students with understanding, perspective and experience in emerging and important areas of environment. Variable unit hours: 3 - 8 units.
A specific topic within the field of Environment not examined in-depth in regular courses. This course will provide students with understanding, perspective and experience in emerging and important areas of environment. If any, prerequisites will be specified on a course by course basis (for example, prerequisite may be 'permission of supervisor' or 'permission of instructor').
This course will introduce graduate students to teaching and learning with asynchronous, computer-mediated conferences. It will survey related learning theory, research on effectiveness, design of learning activities, facilitation, assessment, and features of conferencing systems.
This course will introduce graduate students to teaching and learning with problem-based learning (PBL). Delivered using PBL, the course includes related learning theory, research on effectiveness, design of learning activities, assessment, facilitation, and computer-mediated delivery.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Introduces students to the discipline of environmental science. Lecture material will be complemented by case studies and guest speakers.   Students who have completed EVSC 200 may not complete this course for further credit.
Introduces EVSC students to lab and field methods used in the study of Environmental Science. Prerequisite: EVSC 100.  Students who have completed EVSC 491W may not complete this course for further credit.
First term of work experience in the Environmental Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: acceptance in the environment co-operative education program.
Second term of work experience in the Environmental Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: EVSC 380 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
Provides Environmental Science students the opportunity to discuss concepts and applications from upper division courses that address social aspects in the study of Environmental Science. Prerequisite:    EVSC 100 and 205.  Students who have completed EVSC 401 may not complete this course for further credit.
Third term of work experience in the Environmental Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: EVSC 381 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
Fourth term of work experience in the Environmental Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: EVSC 480 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
Optional fifth term of work experience in the Environmental Science Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for a Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: EVSC 481 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
Apply the theories and methods of environmental science to evaluate quantitatively the environmental impact of an industry on a selected site. The site can vary from year to year. This laboratory course brings together students from all streams of the Environmental Science Program, and the field work will be conducted by small groups of students. Prerequisite: standing in the environmental science program, with at least 30 upper division units, or with permission of the program director. Writing.
Provides Environmental Science students the opportunity to discuss concepts and applications presented in upper division courses that address social science aspects in the study of Environmental Science. Prerequisite:    EVSC 100, 205, 399.  Students who have completed EVSC 401 may not complete this course for further credit.
An interdisciplinary introduction to the analysis of social organization, with specific attention to identity, institutions, and environment. Enrolment restricted to students accepted into the Explorations program. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An interdisciplinary approach to creative and cultural forms of expression that reflect on an individual's perception of social experience. Enrolment restricted to students accepted into the Explorations program. Breadth-Humanities.
An interdisciplinary survey of issues and patterns in development across the globe since European industrialization. Enrolment restricted to students accepted into the Explorations program. Breadth-Social Sciences.
This course will approach the study of images and meaning from several angles, asking how images create meaning, how people see, how image-making has evolved over time, and how academic disciplines analyse or use images. It will combine humanities and social science perspectives.
A study of migration, culture and identity through thematic or historical topics, selected case studies, and interdisciplinary scholarship in the Arts. Enrolment restricted to students accepted into the Explorations program.
An interdisciplinary study of a selected topic in the arts and/or social sciences. Prerequisite: enrolment is restricted to students who are accepted into the Explorations program. Writing/Breadth-Humanities .
An interdisciplinary examination of the nature and processes of social research, with a focus on research conducted in the local community. Enrolment restricted to students accepted into the Explorations program. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An interdisciplinary introduction to research and interpretation in Arts based scholarship. Enrolment restricted to students accepted into the Explorations Program.  Breadth-Humanities.
Provides an in-depth, interdisciplinary investigation of a selected thematic, theoretical, historical, or contemporary topic, primarily from social science perspectives. Topics, research approaches, assignments, and projects will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: 30 units in the Faculty of Arts and social sciences including EXPL 150, 160 and a minimum six units at the 200 division; or 45 units in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences. Writing/Breadth-Social Science.
Provides an in-depth, interdisciplinary investigation of a selected thematic, theoretical, historical, or contemporary topic primarily from Arts perspectives. Topics, research approaches, assignments, and projects will vary from term to term. Prerequisite: 30 units in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences including EXPL 150, 160 and a minimum of six units at the 200 division; or 45 units in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences. Breadth-Humanities.
Examines a selected thematic, historical, or theoretical topic in the arts and/or social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective, with an emphasis on forms of and approaches to writing, and the integration of knowledge across disciplines. Prerequisite: 30 units in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, with at least six units in the 200 division and a minimum of nine units of Explorations; or 45 units in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences.
An introduction to the kinds of reading and writing students will encounter in lower-division courses across the university disciplines. Important aspects of the writing process are discussed and illustrated in class, and students receive individual feedback on their academic writing. Students who wish to use the course to meet the language proficiency prerequisite of a writing-intensive course must obtain a C or better.  Enrolment priority is given to undergraduate students who have not yet met the language proficiency prerequisite of a writing-intensive course. Students who receive less than a C grade on their first attempt at the course may re-enroll. No student may attempt the course more than twice. Units from this course do not count toward the units required for an SFU degree; however, the course grade is included in calculation of the student's cumulative GPA.
Designed for students who need to upgrade their mathematical background in preparation for SFU Q courses. Also recommended for students who wish to refresh skills after several years away from mathematics. An in-depth look at what mathematics is; mathematical reasoning, problem solving and math study skills. Review of fundamental topics and concepts of mathematics and their real-world applications. This course aims to develop students' math study skills, confidence in their quantitative abilities, and to learn how understanding mathematics is both one of the keys to mastering other disciplines, and useful in everyday situations. Units from this course do not count towards the 120 units required for an SFU degree; however, the course grade is included in the calculation of the student's cumulative GPA. Prerequisite: students who have taken, have received transfer credit for, or are currently taking MATH 150, 151, 154 or 157 may not take FAN X99 for credit without the permission from the Department of Mathematics.
Practical training in the description of sounds used in language. Prerequisite: Students in the First Nations Studies program should complete FNLG 231 (or LING 231) before FNLG 130. Students who have completed LING 130 may not complete this course for further credit.
Intensive language instruction in a First Nations language at a beginner level. The course will be based on a designated language to be named each time it is taught. Prerequisite: Students who have completed LANG 132, 158 or 224 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
Introduces the structure of a First Nations language, including phonetics, vocabulary, word formation, and grammatical constructions. Based on a designated language and usually chosen from the Northwest coast area. Prerequisite: Students who have completed LING 231 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language. Recommended: students in the First Nations Studies program should complete FNLG 231 before FNLG 130.
A continuation of the introductory course in a First Nations language, including phonetics, vocabulary, word formation, and grammatical constructions. Based on a designated language and will usually be chosen from the Northwest Coast area. Prerequisite: FNLG 231 (or LING 231) in the same language. Students who have completed LING 232 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
Intensive language instruction in a First Nations language at an intermediate level. The course will be based on a designated language to be named each time it is taught. Please inquire at the Department of Linguistics for information on placement. Prerequisite: Students who have completed LANG 248 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
An intermediate course in the structure of a First Nations language, including writing systems, texts, general linguistic properties, and language family. Based on a designated language and usually chosen from the Northwest Coast area. Prerequisite: FNLG 232 (or LING 232) or equivalent credit in the same language. Students who have completed LING 331 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
A continuation of the intermediate course in a First Nations language, including writing systems, texts, general linguistic properties, and language family. Based on a designated language and usually chosen from the Northwest Coast area. Prerequisite: FNLG 331 (or LING 331) or equivalent credit in the same language. Students who have completed LING 332 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
Content varies as required by First Nations language communities or learners. Usually focuses on intermediate to advanced level topics on structural aspects of a particular First Nations language, emphasizing language learning and teaching. Prerequisite: FNLG 130 (or LING 130), FNLG 231 (or LING 231), FNLG 332 (or LING 332) or permission of instructor. Recommended: LING 360. Students who have completed LING 335 for a designated topic may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated topic.
Intended for advanced learners of a particular First Nations language. Offers advanced vocabulary and/or grammatical skills through individualized practice with fluent speakers (usually elders) of that language. Enrolment requires prior approval of the Department of Linguistics and the local First Nations community. Students will be evaluated on the basis of the individualized goals and objects set at the beginning of the course. Prerequisite: FNLG 332 (or LING 332) or permission of course supervisor. This course is graded on a pass/fail basis. Students who have completed LING 433 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
Offers additional advanced vocabulary and/or grammatical skills in the First Nations language through individualized practice with fluent speakers (usually elders) of that language. Prerequisite: FNLG 433 (or LING 433) or permission of course supervisor. This course is graded on a pass/fail basis. Recommended: FNLG 431 and 432. Students who have completed LING 434 for a designated language may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated language.
Content varies as required by First Nations language communities or learners. Usually focuses on advanced level topics on structural aspects of a particular First Nations language, emphasizing language learning and teaching. Prerequisite: LING 220, FNLG 332 (or LING 332) or permission of instructor. Recommended: LING 360, FNLG 431 and 432. Students who have completed LING 435 for a designated topic may not complete this course for further credit for the same designated topic.
An introduction to the nature and goals of First Nations studies as an academic discipline; survey of prehistory, traditional cultures and aboriginal languages of Canada's First Nations. Breadth-Humanities/Social Sciences.
An examination of fact and ideology in history and historic events involving contact between native and European peoples. The course will also address questions of research methodologies in studying Native/European relations, such as the evaluation of oral history and written ethnohistoric sources. An additional focus will be on gender as it influences perspectives. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Indigenous peoples of North America possess perceptions of landscape rooted in their long history with the land. Using methods and theories designed for anthropology, archaeology, land and resource management planning and geography will bring a multi-disciplinary approach to this study of cultural landscapes. Prerequisite: FNST 101 or 201.
Topics will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest where the body of work may not otherwise be covered in-depth in regular courses. Prerequisite: three units in First Nations Studies.
Involves a survey and examination of method, theory and related topics associated with contemporary First Nations Studies research in applied contexts. Ethical conduct and protocols for working within First Nations communities are reviewed. Prerequisite: FNST 101 or 201 or by permission of the department.
Prerequisite: will vary according to the topic.
Examines selected themes in the history of Aboriginal peoples of North America from first contact with Europeans to the mid-nineteenth century. Prerequisite: 45 units including FNST 101 or 201. FNST 325 and HIST 325 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Examines selected themes in the history of Aboriginal peoples of North America in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Prerequisite: 45 units including FNST 101 or 201. FNST 326 and HIST 326 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Themes and issues relating to the historical and contemporary experiences of aboriginal women in Canada: indigenous theories of gender; evolution and political function of stereotypes of indigenous women in Canada; history of Canadian legislation regulating indigenous identity; relevance of feminist analysis; and history of activism. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken FNST 322 under this topic may not take this course for further credit. FNST 327 and GSWS 327 (or WS 327) are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Examines written works on sexuality and gender including the history of representations of the sexualized savage; the discussion of indigenous concepts of gender, including discussions of two-spirit versus gay identity; homophobia and sexual violence as tools of colonization; the emancipatory potential of erotica. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken FNST 322 may not take this course for further credit.
This course is an introduction to the study of plant knowledge and use by First Nations peoples in British Columbia. It provides students with information about the role of plants in First Nations' cultures including such areas as foods, medicines, technology, ceremony, ecological indicators, and within First Nations' knowledge and classification systems. Special focus may be placed on the ethnobotany of one or more Aboriginal groups or culture areas. Prerequisite: FNST 101 or by permission of the department.
Examines works of popular fiction by indigenous authors and their use of specific genres (e.g. the mystery novel, vampire thriller, sci fi, comic book). Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken FNST 322 under this topic may not take this course for further credit. ENGL 360 and FNST 360 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Examines various art forms and aesthetic expressions of select indigenous peoples of the Americas including aboriginal poetry and poetic forms. A research and creation studio course. Prerequisite: 45 units; no previous artistic training and/or experience are required. Students who have taken this course under FNST 322 under the topic 'Poetics/Poetry: Bookmaking' or 'Indigenous Expressive Arts' may not take this course for further credit.
Studio seminar with intensive practice through significant weaving projects. Uses diverse techniques (tool making and loom building) and materials such as grasses, tree withes, wool, twine and synthetics to reflect upon ecosystem relevance, sustainability, and cosmology in specific First Nations and indigenous communities. A minimum of 12 additional hours per week for project work is required. Prerequisite:    45 units including one FNST course
Examines various art forms and aesthetic expressions of select indigenous peoples of the Americas. Reviews techniques and protocols for the gathering and preparation of materials and the use of ethnographic materials, and provides learning through hands-on practice. Prerequisite: 45 units and permission of instructor; no previous artistic training and/or experience is required. Students who have taken this course as FNST 322 under the topic 'Indigenous Expressive Arts' with a focus in crafts may not take this course for further credit.
An examination of First Nations and aboriginal peoples' perspectives on political, social and legal issues involving their rights as first citizens of Canada and North America, and the practical and political relations with various levels of government. Issues examined include: aboriginal rights and title questions, self government models and concepts, constitutional matters, the impact of federal government policies, including their impact on women's lives, and native community and First Nations politics. Prerequisite: FNST 101 and 201.  Recommended: POL 221.
Style and content of aboriginal people's discourse about their culture, world view, history and matters affecting their lives. Includes the analysis of selections from native oral literature, autobiography, expository writing, modern poetry and fiction. Prerequisite: FNST 101 and 201.
This course explores the subject of traditional indigenous knowledge and its contemporary implications for First Nations programs in such areas as economic development, ecotourism, spiritualism, language retention, biodiversity, ethnoscience, environmentalism, and heritage conservation. First Nations perspectives on patents, copyrights, and other creative products from traditional culture will also be examined through lecture, guest speakers and seminar presentation. Prerequisite: FNST 201 or by permission of the department.
An in-depth examination of Aboriginal/indigenous conceptions of justice in dealing with crime and other trouble in indigenous communities, and in relations among peoples. Prerequisite: FNST 101 or 201, or CRIM 101, or permission of the instructor. Students who took this course as CRIM 416 or 418 may not take this course for further credit. FNST 419 and CRIM 419 are identical and students cannot take both courses for credit.
An examination of how relations between Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples framed and were framed by the development of international law from the 15th century onward. Prerequisite: FNST 101 or 201, or CRIM 101, or permission of instructor. Students who have taken this course under CRIM 416-3 or 418-3 under the title "Indigenous Peoples and International Law" or "Indigenous Peoples and Evolving International Relations" may not take this course for further credit. FNST 429 and CRIM 429 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Examines contemporary writings regarding indigenous environmental logic and environmental concerns of contemporary times. Studies effects of resource extraction upon indigenous nations, globalization, genetic modifications, health, intellectual property, spiritual beliefs, culture and society, art and language and compares these with specific indigenous logic at the time of contact. Prerequisite: 45 units.
Directed readings for upper level students in First Nations Studies who wish to study selected topics in depth. Prerequisite: nine units in First Nations Studies. Corequisite: permission of an instructor and program chair. Variable units 2, 3, 4, 5.
Traces the development of legal doctrine pertaining to Aboriginal peoples in Canada and the United States, including its shared roots in British colonial law and policy. Prerequisite: 45 units including FNST 101, 201 and one other FNST course; or permission of the instructor. FNST 443 and HIST 443 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit. Students who have taken HIST 485 or 486 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Examines protocol, theory, responsibility, issues of domain (including inherent rights) involving traditional oral testimony, storytelling, oral narrative in an aboriginal/Nation-centric canon. Compares aboriginal canon 'oral record' to aboriginal individual first-person accounts. Prerequisite:    60 units including   FNST 101 or  FNST 201    and permission of the instructor.
This course is designed to provide a basic understanding of the elements of music and teaches the skill of reading music notation. An introduction to music theory and exposure to the application of music materials in a wide spectrum of music literature will be accompanied by practical exercises. The course is designed for students with no formal music training. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
This course introduces students to some basic issues in the fine and performing arts through the presentation and discussion of selected works in dance, film, music, theatre and visual art. It is designed to give students who intend further study in one or more of these arts some familiarity with critical issues affecting all of them. It is a recommended preparation for the school's upper division history and critical courses. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Breadth-Humanities.
A studio course devoted to the development of movement skills through popular dance, within the context of contemporary dance as an art form. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
First of two studio courses in contemporary dance and ballet technique. Introduces theoretical approaches to contemporary dance. This is one of four courses required for entry into the dance major and minor programs. Prerequisite: prior approval as a result of an audition. Corequisite: FPA 122 and FPA 129 must be taken concurrently.
Continues and expands on the work undertaken in FPA 122. Emphasizes work in contemporary dance and ballet technique with attention to theoretical approaches to contemporary dance. Prerequisite: FPA 122. Corequisite: FPA 123 and FPA 124 must be taken concurrently.
Selected dance improvisational skills will be explored in a variety of solo, duet, small group and large group forms through structured movement themes. Emphasis will be on sensory awareness, elements of movement, and literal and abstract imagistic stimuli. (studio) This is one of four courses required for entry into the BFA dance major and extended minor.  Recommended: dance or theatre experience.
This studio/theory course incorporates techniques of body awareness, centering, and structural realignment.  The emphasis is on body conditioning and body connectedness. This course will be of interest to dancers, actors, kinesiologists, and athletes. This is one of four courses required for entry into the dance major and extended minor program.
Introduces students to the basic components of filmmaking through lectures, film screenings and creative projects in the various media that combine to form cinema. Prerequisite: prior approval through formal application. A laboratory fee is required. Students should be advised that course activities may require additional costs.   Students who have completed FPA 132, 133, 134 or 230 may not take FPA 130 for further credit.
An introductory course in 16 mm. film production, emphasizing creative use of the medium. Each student is expected to conceive, direct and edit a short film with a non-synchronous sound track, as well as participate in the making of class exercises and other students' films. A laboratory fee is required. Students should be advised that film production will probably incur significant costs in addition to lab fees. Prerequisite: FPA 130 and prior approval.  An introductory course in 16 mm.
An introductory course designed to facilitate a fundamental understanding of film technique, style and form in order to develop the skills with which to analyze films of all genres. Through lectures and screenings it will provide an overview of the social, aesthetic and technical development of motion pictures, introducing tools for the formal analysis of the elements of cinema: cinematography and lighting, art direction, performance, editing, sound and the screenplay. The formal and historical elements of documentary, avant-garde and dramatic films will be addressed. The course will involve the screening and discussion of several complete feature films and shorts, as well as excerpts from others.
This course will examine the early development of cinema from 1890 until about 1945, with particular emphasis on the fundamental principles of film as an art form. A substantial number of films will be shown during laboratory sessions. Students with credit for FPA 236 offered in 1982/83 and prior years may not take this course for further credit. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Breadth-Humanities.
This course will examine selected developments in cinema from 1945 to the present, with attention to various styles of artistic expression in film. A substantial number of films will be shown during laboratory sessions. Students with credit for FPA 237 offered in 1982/83 and prior years may not take FPA 137 for further credit. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Breadth-Humanities.
An introductory survey of major historical trends and practices of music in the 20th and 21st centuries as revealed by the study of selected music examples. Critical issues fundamental to an understanding of contemporary composition will be examined (e.g. impressionism, twelve-tone music, indeterminacy, the role of technology, improvisation). Prerequisite: FPA 104. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Breadth-Humanities.
This course introduces basic concepts of music composition such as melody and pitch organization, harmony, rhythm and form. The fundamental principles of theory and acoustics (e.g. voice-leading, overtone structure, metre) will be studied with particular reference to composition. Students will compose short works within given guidelines that address specific compositional issues. Prerequisite: FPA 104.  Students who have completed a music theory/notation course at another institution, but who have not received transfer credit as FPA 104 should seek a clearance/prerequisite waiver from the department.
An introduction to the application of electroacoustic technology to music, including the concepts of the audio signal, signal processing and sound synthesis in their musical applications. The techniques of tape music, electronic music and computer music composition will be introduced and their role in both studio composition and live performance will be discussed. Practical experience in several of these areas is included in the lab component.    Breadth-Humanities
An approach to the elements of acting based on improvisation, with some attention to working from established texts. Focus will be placed on the development of the actor's instrument. The work will include the development of individual powers of expression - vocally, physically, intellectually, imaginatively, and emotionally. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
Expands the work of Acting I with an increased emphasis on text, leading to scene work. Prerequisite: FPA 150. Students who have completed FPA 152 may not take 151 for further credit. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
A hands-on studio course modeled on the progressive development of artistic practice from simple mark-making to full scale installation. Through a process of continuous transformation, an original idea is developed in a sequence of methods, materials and scales. Some research is required. A course materials fee is required.
A continuation of the work begun in FPA 160, with emphasis on particular problems in the visual arts worked through a series of projects, culminating in the Campus Project, a site-specific public work designed, built and installed at the end of the term. Some research is required. Prerequisite: FPA 160. A course materials fee is required. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
An introduction to the visual arts of the nineteenth century. Formal and thematic approaches to the arts will be introduced, with attention to the social, institutional, national, and international contexts of art. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of the visual arts from the twentieth century to the present, with attention to the artists, artworks, movements, and discourses that re-defined the functions and meanings of art. The debates of modernism, postmodernity, postcolonialism, feminism, and the avant-garde will be systematically explored. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to the processes, tools and technology used in the production and presentation of the fine and performing arts. Course requirements will include hands-on assignments in the production of theatre, dance, and music events. Students will work directly with equipment and materials, and are expected to be involved in work on productions and exhibitions outside of lecture and lab hours. Laboratory fee required. May be of particular interest to students in other areas and departments.
An introduction to the management, and organization of the performing arts. This course will provide a grounding for students who wish to become further involved in the administration of the performing arts and may include practical experience outside of regular seminar hours. May be of particular interest to students in other areas and departments.   Students who have received credit for FPA 171 STT-Intro to Stage and Production Management may not take FPA 171 for further credit
Introduces theoretical concepts and historical issues that have informed the creation, perception, interpretation, and analysis of selected artworks in formative epochs, such as the Renaissance, Romanticism, Modernism, or Postmodernism. Prerequisite: 24 units including six in the history or theory of the fine or performing arts. Students with credit for FPA 211 Introduction to Contemporary Theory in the Arts cannot take this course for further credit.
The first studio course in a series designed for students pursuing a major or extended minor in dance. Emphasizes work in contemporary dance and is designed to develop technical facility in movement and acquaint the student with form and style in contemporary dance. Prerequisite: FPA 122, 123, 124, 129 and prior approval by interview.
The second studio course in a series designed for students pursuing a major or extended minor in dance. Expands on the work undertaken in FPA 220 and aims to develop technical facility in movement and acquaint the student with form and style in contemporary dance (studio). Prerequisite: FPA 220.
Study in the craft of dance composition emphasizing specific problems in space, time, dynamics, structure and imagery. Students will perform compositions for critical analysis and participate in the rehearsal and performance of their colleagues' compositions. Prerequisite: FPA 122, 123, 124 and 129 and interview.
Study of the development of modern dance and the reformation of the ballet from the beginning of the 20th century to the present.  Emphasis will be placed on seminal dance artists and the impact their work has had upon the art form in western theatre dance. Students with credit for FPA 328 may not take this course for further credit.  Recommended: FPA 127. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Breadth-Humanities/Social Sciences.
An introduction to aesthetic theory as it applies to dance. Lectures will address, among other things, the nature of aesthetic experience, as well as issues pertaining to critical judgment, communication, taste, and high and low art. Prerequisite: students who completed selected topics course FPA 229 in Fall 2005 or Fall 2006 may not take this course for further credit. Writing.
A specific topic in dance which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. The work will be practical, theoretical, or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: FPA 220 or prior approval.
The first of two courses (FPA 231 is the second) which form an intensive study of the craft of sync-sound 16 mm. filmmaking, with an emphasis on production planning, creative development and the shooting and editing of short films. In-class exercises and film screenings will lead to the production of several original films. Each student will be expected to play major creative and technical roles in these productions. A laboratory fee is required. Film production may require personal funding in addition to the lab fees. Prerequisite: FPA 131 and FPA 136 or FPA 137 and prior approval. Corequisite: FPA 233. Students who have taken FPA 330 for credit may not complete FPA 230 for further credit.
This course continues the work begun in FPA 230 Filmmaking II. Students will acquire proficiency in film technique through lab exercises, readings and film screenings. As well, all students will participate in the completion of short original sync-sound 16 mm. films which were begun in FPA 230. Emphasis is placed on the development of means for creative expression supported by technical skills. Laboratory fee required. Students should be advised that film production will probably incur significant costs in addition to lab fees. Prerequisite: FPA 230 and FPA 233.
Through lectures, demonstrations and studio work, students will be introduced to several aspects of location sound recording and audio post production for film and video. Topics will include synchronization systems and techniques, editing, music scoring, mixing and both analog and digital sound technology. Prerequisite: FPA 131 or FPA 147 and prior approval.  Students who have completed FPA 330 may not take FPA 232 for further credit.
Covers the technical aspects of basic 16 mm. production skills: camera, lighting, sound, editing, lab processes. Laboratory fee required. Prerequisite: FPA 131 and prior approval. Corequisite: FPA 230.
A survey of the key works and ideas that have informed contemporary moving image art practice nationally and internationally. Beginning with antecedents in painting and photography, the course will move forward from the early European avant-garde to the lyrical and structural works of the seventies, the issue-based work of the eighties, and finally the gallery-based practices of the present day. Intended for all students with an interest in the moving image as an art form. Prerequisite: one of FPA 135, 136, 137, 167 or 168 or 30 units. Students who have taken FPA 289 in Spring 2006 or Spring 2007 under this title may not take this course for further credit.
Examines the achievements of dramatic, documentary and experimental filmmaking in Canada from the earliest days until the present. Special attention will be paid to the cinemas of Quebec and western Canada, and to the cultural, political and theoretical traditions that have shaped contemporary cinema in Canada. Prerequisite: FPA 136 or 137, or 30 units. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Breadth-Humanities.
This course will cover a specific topic within the field of film and video studies not covered in depth in regularly scheduled courses, such as: a national cinema; film and politics; Quebec cinema; documentary film and video, etc.  Weekly sessions. The course may be repeated for credit if a different topic is taught. Prerequisite: FPA 136 or 137. Breadth-Humanities.
This course introduces the methodologies of writing for the screen in various styles, including dramatic, documentary and experimental forms, with an emphasis on structure and the creative expression of visual ideas. Students will perform a variety of writing assignments and each will be expected to complete one or more short original scripts. Prerequisite: one of FPA 136,137 or 253 and prior approval. Students who have taken FPA 332 for credit may not take FPA 238 for further credit.
This course introduces the methodologies of writing for the screen in various styles, including dramatic, documentary and experimental forms, with an emphasis on structure and the creative expression of visual ideas. Students will perform a variety of writing assignments and each will be expected to complete one or more short original scripts. Prerequisite: one of FPA 136,137 or 253 and prior approval. Students who have taken FPA 332 for credit may not take FPA 238 for further credit. Writing.
Performance of works from the contemporary music repertoire for instruments and voice. A range of material will be covered from more improvisational pieces to conventionally notated scores. Prerequisite: audition/interview.
Practical and theoretical study of music for gamelan ensemble, based on, but not limited to, traditional Javanese music. This course is designed as an introduction to the study of the music of non-Western cultures and as a method of developing ensemble musicianship. Prerequisite: prior approval. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
The theoretical investigation of the basic materials of the tempered chromatic scale, alternative tuning systems, and contemporary practices of texture and rhythm. Analysis of a wide range of music, score-reading and exposure to recorded music will be part of the course. Prerequisite: FPA 140 and 145.
Composition for small instrumental groups, electroacoustic resources or combinations of instruments and electronics. Students are also encouraged to do work involving collaboration with dance, film, theatre and visual art. In addition to individual composition lessons, students will be required to attend a composition seminar where the practice of composition will be discussed. Seminar topics will include orchestration, world repertoire, and issues of music technology. Prerequisite: FPA 145 and prior approval.
This course is a continuation of FPA 245. Prerequisite: FPA 140 and FPA 245 and prior approval from the area.
The theory and practice of electroacoustic music technology and composition. In addition to expanding upon the issues introduced in FPA 147, the course will examine through lecture and studio work the following topics: analog and digital synthesis, microcomputer use, the multi-track studio, signal processing, communication protocols such as MIDI and sampling techniques. Prerequisite: FPA 147. Quantitative.
Introduces basic elements of conducting technique including metrical patterns, quality of beat, cueing, score preparation, rehearsal technique, showing expression and dynamics, and score reading. The course is primarily designed for composers or prospective music teachers. Students will gain regular practical experience through conducting ensembles comprised of members of the class. Prerequisite: FPA 245 or prior approval.  Students who have received credit for FPA 249 may not receive further credit for FPA 248.
A specific topic in music which is not otherwise covered in-depth in regular courses. The work may be practical, theoretical or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: FPA 140 and/or prior approval.
Begins the concentrated work of training the actor in both the freedom and the control of voice and body. This is accomplished through: work on the self as a source of personal imagery and as a potential wellspring of characters, work with other actors in ensemble relationships, work on text as a blueprint for expression, scene study as a vehicle for the realization of the specific dramatic content and overall shape of a play. Prerequisite: prior to enrolment in this course, the student must pass a successful audition. Corequisites: FPA 129, 254.
Continues and expands upon the work undertaken in Acting I. Prerequisite: FPA 250 and 254. Corequisite: FPA 255.
Introduces elements of playmaking such as self scripting, mask exploration, clowning and political theatre. The objective is to enable students to make their own theatre. Prerequisite: admission to FPA 250 or prior approval. Laboratory fee required.
Expands the work undertaken in Playmaking I emphasizing writing skills and story structure. Prerequisite: FPA 150, 151 and prior approval.
This is the first of four courses in performance research, each of which is 'attached' to one of the four courses: FPA 250, 251, 350 and 351. The work comprises voice and speech training. Prerequisite: prior approval. Corequisite: FPA 250 and 129.
This is the second of four courses in performance research. The work comprises voice and speech training. Prerequisite: FPA 250 and 254. Corequisite: FPA 251.
A conceptual approach to a selected body of dramatic work focussing on the detailed structural analysis of dramatic texts, their historical context, their development and production histories. Particular emphasis will be placed upon the evolving relationship between theatre and its audience. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
A conceptual approach to a selected body of dramatic work focussing on the detailed structural analysis of dramatic texts, their historical context, their development and production histories. Particular emphasis will be placed upon the evolving relationship between theatre and its audience. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Writing.
This course permits students to work extensively in a mature critical studio environment on a combination of freely chosen and assigned projects in various contemporary media. Reading will be required. Prerequisite: FPA 111, 161, 168 and prior approval. A course materials fee is required.
Continues work done in FPA 260. Work will combine freely chosen and assigned projects in a variety of contemporary media. Readings will be required as an integral part of studio work. Prerequisite: FPA 260 and status as an approved visual art major. A course materials fee is required.
A studio course introducing drawing practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Prerequisite: FPA 160. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for either FPA 262 or 362, but not both.
A studio course introducing painting practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for either FPA 263 or 363, but not both.
A studio course introducing sculptural practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Prerequisite: FPA 161 or 170. FPA 264 is identical to FPA 364 and students may not take both courses for credit. A course materials fee is required.
A studio course introducing photographic practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for either FPA 265 or 365, but not both.
A studio course introducing spatial presentation practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Prerequisite: FPA 161 or 170. A course materials fee is required. Students can only receive credit for one of FPA 163, 268 or 368.
A studio course introducing topics in art-making practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. This course may be taken more than once for credit under a different topic. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required.
Students having a basic familiarity with elements of production and design participate in an in-depth theoretical and practical exploration of stage management, staging, audio and lighting for theatre, dance and music production. Students in this class will develop skills necessary to provide technical support for the School's productions. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Prerequisite: FPA 170 or FPA 171.
Students having a basic familiarity with elements of production and design participate in an in-depth theoretical and practical exploration of stage management, staging, audio and lighting for theatre, dance and music production. Students in this class will develop skills necessary to provide technical support for the School's productions. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Prerequisite: FPA 170 or FPA 171 or prior permission.
Provides students with the opportunity to learn and practise the technical and management skills and to take on the roles and responsibilities associated with creating a performing arts production. Individual assignments will vary according to the needs of the production season. Required of all second year production and design majors and extended minors. Fall term only. Prerequisite: FPA 170 or FPA 171 and prior approval. Corequisite: FPA 270. Attendance at all seminars and relevant production meetings is mandatory.
Provides students with the opportunity to learn and practise the technical and management skills and to take on the roles and responsibilities associated with creating a performing arts production. Individual assignments will vary according to the needs of the production season. Required of all second year production and design majors and extended minors. Spring term only. Prerequisite: FPA 170 or FPA 171 or FPA 171 (with STT in title) and prior approval. Corequisite: FPA 271.
An introduction to the techniques of artistic composition as experienced in a collaborative interdisciplinary studio environment. The emphasis is on the creation, analysis and critique of new compositions created in collaborative groups by students in dance, music, theatre, film/video and visual art. Prerequisite: FPA 111 and one of FPA 122, 130, 145, 150, 160, 170 or permission of the instructor.
A specific topic in fine and performing arts which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses and which is not appropriately placed within a single arts discipline. The work will be practical, theoretical, or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Prerequisite:    will vary according to the topic.
A hands-on introduction to the technical and aesthetic aspects of digital video production and post-production. Laboratory fee required. Prerequisite:    six units in FPA and prior approval.
Exploration of a disciplinary or interdisciplinary research topic with School for the Contemporary Arts faculty. Focuses on studio-based project(s), and attention will be paid to theoretical and historical contexts. Prerequisite: 60 units, including at least 30 units in FPA.
A scholarly exploration of artistic traditions and practices in the country being visited, with special attention to cultural, theoretical, historical and political contexts. Prerequisite: a minimum of 60 units and approval of Field School Director. Students with credit for FPA 289, 311, 329, 337, 388 or 389 offered under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Students receive training in selected forms of dance, film, video, theatre, music, visual art and other forms of art production in the country being visited, with the opportunity of interacting with local people, artists and academics. Prerequisite: a minimum of 60 units and permission of Field School Director. Students with credit for FPA 289, 311, 329, 337, 388 or 389 offered under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
An examination of interdisciplinary methods that have been used to research the fine and performing arts. The course is an in-depth study of approaches to interdisciplinary research, including perceptual concerns, theoretical directions, contextual issues, and analytical processes. Prerequisite: FPA 210 and two of FPA 167, 168, 136, 137. Students who have taken FPA 310 prior to 1999-2 may take this course for further credit.
An historical, theoretical or thematic topic in the fine and performing arts presenting an in-depth investigation of interdisciplinary approaches to the study of art and culture. Prerequisite: 45 units including six units in history or theory courses within the School for the Contemporary Arts. The course may be repeated when different topics are offered. Recommended: FPA 210.
Investigates a selected thematic topic in art and culture studies, for example, postcolonial theory and the arts; perception and embodiment; art activism and resistance; or urban art and culture. Prerequisite: will vary according to the topic. Students who have taken FPA 312 prior to 1999-2 may take this course for further credit.
Investigates a selected historical topic in art and culture. Prerequisite: will vary according to the topic. Students who have taken FPA 314 prior to 1999-2 may take this course for further credit.
Traces the interdisciplinary origins of performance studies and brings its concepts and methods to bear on dance, music, theatre, performance art, and media performance. Prerequisite: minimum of 45 units, including FPA 111 or another critical or history course within the School for Contemporary Arts; or by prior approval. Students who have taken FPA 311 Interdisciplinary Studies in the Arts/Introduction to Performance Studies during the 2007/3 and 2008/3 terms cannot take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
Examines aspects of critical writing associated with the fine and performing arts and encourages students to participate as writers in the artistic and cultural debates of their day. Forms examined will include but not be limited to reviews, articles, descriptive synopses for exhibition and festival programs, curatorial essays, project proposals and artists' statements. Prerequisite: 60 units including at least six units in FPA history/theory courses. Writing.
The first of four upper division courses which build upon the movement vocabulary of contemporary dance. Prerequisite: FPA 221.
Continues and expands upon the work undertaken in FPA 320. Prerequisite: FPA 320.
Explores the vocabulary and movement range of classical ballet technique at the intermediate level. Further attention will be given to the understanding of body placement, balance, flexibility and strength. Practical studio experience is offered within the context of specific theoretical principles. Prerequisite: acceptance into the dance major or extended minor program, or prior approval.
Continuation of FPA 322, with an emphasis on expanding the vocabulary and movement range of classical ballet technique at the intermediate level. Further attention will be given to the understanding of body placement, balance, flexibility and strength. Practical studio experience is offered within the context of specific theoretical principles. Prerequisite: FPA 322, or prior approval.
Students will be introduced to traditional choreographic structures and explore new directions in composition. Emphasis will be on the creation and analysis of work generated by extending the parameters of source, style and form in contemporary dance. Prerequisite: FPA 124, plus one of 224, 230, 240, 245, 252, 253 or 260.
A specific topic or set of ideas will form the basis for choreographic exploration. Students will create one or more works and participate in research and critical analysis, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: 40 units in FPA courses.
One of two courses which provide advanced level dance students the opportunity to work as an ensemble rehearsing and preparing for a series of public performances. Choreography will be created and/or selected by a faculty director. Prerequisite: acceptance into the dance major or extended minor, and prior approval. Corequisite: students must be concurrently enrolled in a technique course at an appropriate level.
One of two courses which provide advanced level dance students with the opportunity to work as an ensemble rehearsing and preparing for a series of public performances. Choreography will be created and/or selected by a faculty director. Prerequisite: acceptance into the dance major or extended minor and prior approval. Corequisite: students must be concurrently enrolled in a technique course at an appropriate level.
A specific topic in dance which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. The work will be practical, theoretical or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: FPA 221 or prior approval.
Facilitates an in-depth understanding of the organizational aspects of film production, with emphasis on pre-production planning. The class will study methods of proposal writing, pre-production and production, developing production packages for short film and video projects. This course is strongly recommended for all students intending to take FPA 430. Prerequisite: FPA 231 or prior approval.
This course emphasizes advanced 16 mm. production skills in cinematography and lighting. Students are expected to participate in intensive camera exercises, as well as to play significant crew roles on fourth year films. Prerequisite: FPA 231 and prior approval. Students who have taken FPA 331 The Crafts of Film III may not take this course for further credit. Laboratory fee required.
This course is concerned with the systematic understanding of the general phenomenon called Cinema rather than with the properties or techniques of individual films. Various theoretical positions will be assessed and compared in terms of cinematic practice and its ideological functions. Prerequisite: six units from among FPA 136, 137, 211, 236, 237. Students who have taken FPA 234 for credit may not take FPA 335 for further credit.  Recommended: FPA 210. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
An intermediate course in critical studies, addressing a variety of topics under this number; for instance, specific genre or area studies (comedy, film noir, science fiction, etc.); national cinemas; film analysis; Third World film, video art, experimental film, etc. The course may be taken again for credit if the topic changes. Prerequisite: will vary according to subject matter. Students who have taken  FPA 339 Selected Topics in Film for credit may not take the same topic under FPA 337 for further credit.
This course will present advanced theory and techniques for writing dramatic, experimental and documentary film and video scripts. Additional topics covered include script analysis, production breakdown, and the writing of treatments and proposals. Prerequisite: one of FPA 238 or 353 or 457 and prior approval. Recommended: strongly recommended for all students developing projects for production in FPA 430.
This course will present advanced theory and techniques for writing dramatic, experimental and documentary film and video scripts. Additional topics covered include script analysis, production breakdown, and the writing of treatments and proposals. Prerequisite: one of FPA 238 or 353 or 457 and prior approval. Recommended: strongly recommended for all students developing projects for production in FPA 430. Writing.
This course acquaints intermediate level students in film, video and theatre with techniques of dramatic film performance. Students will be expected to perform as both actors and directors on scene work in class. Topics covered include auditioning, script analysis, role preparation, rehearsal, blocking for the camera, and directing techniques. Prerequisite: FPA 131 or 151 and prior approval. Students who have completed Directing and Acting for Film as FPA 379 in spring 1990 or earlier, may not take this course for further credit. This course is not a duplicate of FPA 339 Selected Topics in Film, available in summer 1990 and earlier.
A continuation of FPA 240. Prerequisite: FPA 240.
The relationship of music and culture, with emphasis on traditional and contemporary music in Asia, Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and the Caribbean, and indigenous cultures of North America. Specific cultural areas may be selected for intensive study in any particular term. Prerequisite: 45 units. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
Continuation of FPA 243, with increased emphasis on the theoretical and ethnomusicological aspects of gamelan. Prerequisite: FPA 243.
An in-depth investigation of selected social, critical and theoretical issues associated with contemporary music, with special emphasis on the period c. 1945 to the present. Issues discussed might include such theoretical concerns as integral serialism; indeterminacy; process music; timbral concerns; or new approaches to melody, harmony and tonality. Critical topics such as music and technology; popular music and the mass media; or critical issues connected with world music might also be considered. The material of the course will be presented through the study of scores, recorded examples and when possible, live concerts. Prerequisite: FPA 244.
This course is a continuation of FPA 246. Prerequisite: FPA 246 or 247, and prior approval.
This course is a continuation of FPA 345. Prerequisite: FPA 345.
An advanced examination of the aesthetics, technology, and compositional approaches of electroacoustic music. Topics may include computer music programming, performance systems, compositional strategies and their relationship to technology, synthesis and processing techniques and the analysis of works. Prerequisite: FPA 247. Students with credit for FPA 347 under its former title may take this course for further credit.
Continuation of FPA 248, with an increased emphasis on more advanced conducting projects. Prerequisite: FPA 248 or FPA 249. Students who have received credit for FPA 349 may not receive further credit for FPA 348.
A specific topic in music which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. The work may be practical, theoretical or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: FPA 245 and/or prior approval. (Prerequisite may vary according to the topic.)
Continues and expands work undertaken in FPA 250 and 251, with an increased emphasis on work with established texts. Prerequisite: FPA 251 and 255. Corequisite: FPA 354.
Continues and expands on the work undertaken in Acting III. Prerequisite: FPA 350 and 354. Corequisite: FPA 355.
Continues the development of playmaking research through intensive studio work consisting of the deconstruction or adaptation of a major dramatic text. Provides the basis for a public presentation in the subsequent term. Prerequisite: FPA 251 and 255.
Black Box Theatre. Students will continue playmaking research through the creation of an ensemble season in a series of public presentations. Prerequisite: second year standing in a studio discipline and prior approval from the instructor. May be repeated for credit if course content is different.
This is the third of four courses in performance research comprising voice and speech training. Prerequisite: FPA 251, 255. Corequisite: FPA 350.
This is the fourth of four courses in performance research, comprising voice and speech training. Prerequisite: FPA 350, 354. Corequisite: FPA 351.
A conceptual approach to a selected body of dramatic work. The detailed structural analysis of dramatic texts, their historical context, their development and production histories. Particular emphasis will be placed upon the evolving relationship between theatre and its audience. Prerequisite: 24 lower division units or prior approval. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
A conceptual approach to a selected body of dramatic work. The detailed structural analysis of dramatic texts, their historical context, their development and production histories. Particular emphasis will be placed upon the evolving relationship between theatre and its audience. Prerequisite: 24 lower division units or prior approval. May be of particular interest to students in other departments. Writing.
A specific topic in theatre which is not otherwise covered in-depth in regular courses. The work may be practical, theoretical or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: FPA 250 and/or prior approval.
An open critical studio course. Students are required to have a program of work prepared at the beginning of the term. This program will constitute the basis of the student's work in the course, and will be the subject of continuing critical discussion. This discussion will be integrated with theoretical studies in the parallel seminar course, FPA 366. Those students who have satisfactorily completed the lower division requirements for the major may apply for entry into the third year studio/seminar stream. Admision is by portfolio assessment and course achievement review in the spring term before third year. Prerequisite: FPA 167, 168, 210, and prior approval. A course materials fee is required. Corequisite: FPA 366.
An open critical studio course. It will continue and extend work done in FPA 360. Students are required to have a program of work prepared at the beginning of the term. This program will form the basis of the student's work in the course, and will be the subject of continuing critical discussion. This discussion will be integrated with theoretical studies in the parallel seminar course, FPA 367. Prerequisite: FPA 360 and 366. Corequisite: FPA 367. A course materials fee is required.
Presents drawing practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Additional assignments will be required for students taking the course at this level. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for either FPA 262 or 362, but not both.
Presents painting practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Additional assignments will be required for students taking the course at this level. (studio) Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for either FPA 263 or 363, but not both.
Presents sculptural practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Additional assignments will be required for students taking the course at this level. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for one of FPA 264, 170, or 364.
Presents photo-based practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Additional assignments will be required for students taking the course at this level. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required. Students will receive credit for either FPA 265 or 365, but not both.
A seminar course to be taken by all students in FPA 360. It deals with visual art topics of an historical, critical and theoretical nature which concern practising artists in the contemporary context. Students will be required to present research papers. Each research subject will be studied in connection with the student's own artistic work. Senior students in other disciplines with appropriate background may request approval to take this course. Those students who have satisfactorily completed the lower division requirements for the major may apply for entry into the third year studio/seminar stream. Admission is by portfolio assessment and course achievement review in the spring term before third year. Prerequisite: FPA 167, 168, 210, and prior approval. Corequisite: FPA 360.
A seminar course to be taken by all students in FPA 361. It deals with visual arts topics of an historical, critical and theoretical nature which concern practising artists in the contemporary context. Students will be required to present research papers. Each research subject will be studied in connection with the student's own artistic work. Senior students in other disciplines with appropriate background may request approval to take this course. Prerequisite: FPA 366. Visual art major students transferring into third year may request approval to take FPA 211 concurrently. Corequisite: FPA 361.
A studio course introducing spatial presentation practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. Prerequisite: FPA 161 or 170. Students can receive credit for only one of FPA 163, 268 or 368. A course materials fee is required.
A studio course presenting topics in art-making practices as they relate to practical, conceptual, aesthetic and historical issues in contemporary art. This course may be taken more than once for credit under a different topic. Prerequisite: FPA 161 and status as an approved major or extended minor in visual art. A course materials fee is required.
Provides students with training and an historical and contemporary context for their related practicum roles as production heads and stage management and design personnel. Issues will be drawn from the School's current production season and from national and international forums in related fields. Prerequisite: FPA 270 and 271 or prior approval.  Students who received credit for FPA 372 prior to 2005 may not take FPA 370 for further credit.
Provides students with training and an historical and contemporary context for their related practicum roles as production heads and stage management and design personnel. Issues will be drawn from the School's current production season and from national and international forums in related fields. Prerequisite: FPA 270 and 271 or prior approval. Students who received credit for FPA 373 (Technical Production II) prior to 2005 may not take FPA 371 for further credit.
Provides students with the opportunity to learn and practise the technical and management skills and to take on the roles and responsibilities associated with creating a performing arts production. Individual assignments will vary according to the needs of the production season. Required of all upper division production and design majors and extended minors working in production and design. Students can expect to devote approximately 150 hours to their FPA 372 production practicum assignments. Prerequisite: FPA 272 and 273, and prior approval.
Provides students with the opportunity to learn and practise the technical and management skills and to take on the roles and responsibilities associated with creating a performing arts production. Individual assignments will vary according to the needs of the production season. Required of all upper division production and design majors and extended minors working in production and design. Students can expect to devote approximately 150 hours to their FPA 373 production practicum assignments. Prerequisite: FPA 272 and 273, or FPA 272(with STT title) and FPA 273, and prior approval.
Explores contemporary stage lighting for theatre, dance and opera. Participants will review the principles of theatrical lighting instruments and control systems and will experiment with the components of lighting design in a variety of studio projects. This course will require a practicum in an actual performance. Prerequisite: FPA 270 or FPA 271 or prior approval. Students with credit for FPA 371 prior to 2005 may not take FPA 374 for further credit. Laboratory fee required.
Explores the numerous complex processes and practices needed to create two and three dimensional designs for stage and performance. Students will engage in a series of creative projects, research, analysis and presentations to enable them to develop and realize their design solutions. Prerequisite: FPA 270 or FPA 271 or prior approval. Students with credit for FPA 370 prior to 2005 may not take FPA 375 for further credit. Laboratory fee required.
Focuses on digital technology and its impact on contemporary art. Explores the history and practice of digital art through the creation of artworks in which the compute is intimately involved from inception through to realization. Prerequisite: FPA 347, or CMNS 358, or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for FPA 389 offered under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
A specific topic in fine and performing arts which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses and which is not appropriately placed within a single arts discipline. The work will be practical, theoretical, or a combination of the two, depending on the particular topic in a given term. Prerequisite: will vary with the topic. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
This course is intended for students interested in video as a means of artistic expression. Students will be encouraged to challenge accepted notions of the video medium and explore the creative possibilities of multi channel presentations. The course comprises a series of technical workshops, screenings and group seminars whose purpose is to develop an awareness of the creative and conceptual possibilities of the medium of video. Students will be expected to initiate and complete a short video project based on an idea of their own choosing. Projects which involve school-wide interdisciplinary collaborations will be encouraged. Prerequisite: prior approval through written proposal for a ten minute video project or installation; an interview; plus FPA 290 or equivalent video experience. A laboratory fee is required. Students should be advised that video production may require personal funding beyond the lab fee.
An opportunity for advanced students to carry out an independent project which is planned and completed in close consultation with the supervisory instructor. Before enrolment, the student must submit a written proposal outlining the project in detail to the chosen supervisor for approval. Directed studies courses may not be used as a substitute for existing courses. Prerequisite: 60 units plus a minimum standing of completion of second year in any of the programs offered in the School for the Contemporary Arts and prior approval.
This course is intended to provide opportunity for advanced students to carry out an independent project which is planned and completed in close consultation with the supervisory instructor. Before enrolment, the student must submit a written proposal outlining the project in detail to the chosen supervisor for approval. Directed studies courses may not be used as a substitute for existing courses. Prerequisite: 60 units plus a minimum standing of completion of second year in any of the programs offered in the School for the Contemporary Arts and prior approval.
Provides an opportunity for advanced students to carry out an independent project which is planned and completed in close consultation with the supervisory instructor. Before enrolment, the student must submit a written proposal outlining the project in detail to the chosen supervisor for approval. Directed studies courses may not be used as a substitute for existing courses. Prerequisite: 60 units plus a minimum standing of completion of second year in any of the programs offered in the School for the Contemporary Arts and prior approval.
This course is intended to provide opportunity for advanced students to carry out an independent project which is planned and completed in close consultation with the supervisory instructor. Before enrolment, the student must submit a written proposal outlining the project in detail to the chosen supervisor for approval. Directed studies courses may not be used as a substitute for existing courses. Prerequisite: 60 units plus completion of second year in any of the programs offered in the School for the Contemporary Arts and prior approval.
Provides an opportunity for advanced students to carry out an independent project which is planned and completed in close consultation with the supervisory instructor. Before enrolment, the student must submit a written proposal outlining the project in detail to the chosen supervisor for approval. Directed studies courses may not be used as a substitute for existing courses. Prerequisite: 60 units plus a minimum standing of completion of second year in any of the programs offered in the School for the Contemporary Arts and prior approval.
Exploration of a disciplinary or interdisciplinary research topic with School for the Contemporary Arts faculty. Focuses on studio-based project(s), and attention will be paid to theoretical and historical contexts. Prerequisite: 60 units, including at least 36 units in FPA. Students with credit for FPA 389 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
A scholarly exploration of artistic traditions and practices in the country being visited, with special attention to cultural, theoretical, historical and political contexts. Prerequisite: a minimum of 60 units and approval of Field School Director. Students with credit for FPA 289, 311, 329, 337, 388 or 389 offered under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Students receive training in selected forms of dance, film, video, theatre, music, visual art and other forms of art production in the country being visited, with the opportunity of interacting with local people, artists and academics. Prerequisite: a minimum of 60 units and approval of Field School Director. Students with credit for FPA 289, 311, 329, 337, 388 or 389 offered under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
An interdisciplinary investigation of key issues in the contemporary arts. Prerequisite: At least 55 units, which must include FPA 210 and one of FPA 310 or 311.
Provides an in-depth investigation of a selected theoretical, historical or thematic topic in art and culture studies. This course requires independent research leading to a substantial paper, as well as directed reading preparation for seminars. Topics will vary from term to term. The course may be repeated when different topics are offered. Prerequisite: eight upper division units and FPA 210. May be of particular interest to students in other departments.
An in-depth investigation of a selected topic in the history of art and culture. Prerequisite: will vary according to the topic.
Investigates specific practices in art and culture, and combines work on a project with theoretical and historical research. The course will focus on the history, theory, and practices of, for example, curating, writing, or making audio-visual artworks. Prerequisite: will vary according to the topic.
The third of four upper division courses which build upon the movement vocabulary of contemporary dance. Prerequisite: FPA 321.
Continues and expands the work undertaken in FPA 420. Prerequisite: FPA 420.
Advanced performance studies in intensive specialized workshops and/or participation in choreographic projects culminating in public performance. Course content may include interdisciplinary collaborations and a variety of performance styles and techniques. Prerequisite: FPA 326 or 327 with prior approval by application. Students must be concurrently enrolled in a dance technique course at the appropriate level.
An introduction into the theory and practice of movement analysis based on recognized theories of analysis. Experiential work may be included in the course and a dance or similar movement background is necessary. Prerequisite: FPA 124 or 151 or prior approval.
An extension of classical ballet technique on an upper intermediate level. Understanding of basic principles is assumed and attention will be focused on combinations of movement, musicality and performance. Prerequisite: FPA 323, or prior approval.
An advanced course. Students must have a thorough background in the vocabulary and techniques of classical ballet. Attention will be given to movement sequences from the ballet repertoire. Prerequisite: FPA 427, or prior approval.
The first half of a two term project in advanced film and/or video production. Students are expected to participate in the realization of one or more projects during the two terms. Students seeking entry into this course are required to present a completed script (for a drama) or detailed proposal (for a documentary or experimental film) prior to enrolment. The exact nature of each student's participation will be determined in consultation with the instructor. Prerequisite: FPA 231 and 10 units in film or video studies plus prior approval. This course is open only to approved film majors. Students should be advised that film production will probably incur significant financial costs in addition to required lab fees.
This course is intended for completion of film and video projects begun in FPA 430. Particular emphasis will be given to advanced film craft in the post-production phase. The exact nature of each student's participation will be determined in consultation with the instructor. Prerequisite: FPA 430. A laboratory fee is required. Students should be advised that film production will probably incur significant costs in addition to lab fees.
This course features intensive study and analysis of selected topics in film theory, history, criticism and aesthetics. Examples include: work of specific directors or periods; theories of narrativity; ideological analysis; particular aspects of national cinemas, etc. is taught. Prerequisite: FPA 335 or permission of instructor.
Continuation of FPA 343 with emphasis on the technique of the elaborating instruments of the gamelan ensemble. Prerequisite: FPA 343.
This course is a continuation of FPA 346. Prerequisite: FPA 346.
Students will undertake a large-scale project in music composition as the culmination of their undergraduate composition studies. Prerequisite: FPA 445.
The theory and practice of digital techniques and computer systems as applied to sound synthesis and music composition. The course will consider the major types of hardware and software systems developed for music from 1955 to the present, and will discuss such issues as machine programmability, user interaction, acoustic models for sound synthesis, and compositional algorithms. Students will have the opportunity for practical compositional work. Prerequisite: FPA 347. Recommended: CMPT 001 or 110. Quantitative.
A course in public performance, with the option of focusing on other advanced studio skills. Integrates and implements the techniques acquired in the earlier studios. Prerequisite: prior approval from the instructor or audition. May be repeated for credit if course content is different.
A course in the fundamentals of directing leading to public performance of student directed projects. Allows  the option of public performance with a professional director. Integrates and implements the techniques acquired in the earlier studios. Prerequisite: FPA 150, 151, and prior approval from the instructor. May be repeated for credit if course content is different.
An analytical approach to a selected body of dramatic work. Course content includes an intensive consideration of practical dramatic techniques such as story structure and dramaturgy. Prerequisite: 45 units and prior approval from the instructor. May be repeated for credit if course content is different.
This course permits students to work in an open studio situation. Students propose an independent program of work in the media of their choice at the beginning of the term and develop it in critical dialogue with the instructor(s). Prerequisite: FPA 361, 367 and status as an approved major in visual art. A course materials fee is required.
Permits students completing the visual art major to work in an open and critical studio situation. Students continue to develop a body of work begun in FPA 460 for their graduating exhibition at the end of the term. Preparation and installation of the exhibition is part of the course requirement. Prerequisite: FPA 460 and status as an approved major in visual art. A course materials fee is required.
Individual studio work at an advanced and intensive level with a commitment to participation in group critiques. Students propose an independent program of work and develop this in critical dialog with instructor(s). Prerequisite: FPA 361, 367 and admission into the Visual Art Honors Program.
Provides senior students with training and an historical and contemporary context for their related practicum roles as production heads and stage management and design personnel. Issues will be drawn from the School's current production season and from national and international forums in related fields. Prerequisite: FPA 370 or 371 and prior approval.
Provides senior students with training and an historical and contemporary context for their related practicum roles as production heads and stage management and design personnel. Issues will be drawn from the School's current production season and from national and international forums in related fields. Prerequisite: FPA 370 or 371 and prior approval.
Provides students with the opportunity to learn and practise the technical and management skills and to take on the roles and responsibilities associated with creating a performing arts production. Individual assignments will vary according to the needs of the production season. Required of all upper division production and design majors and extended minors working in production and design. Students can expect to devote approximately 150 hours to their FPA 472 production practicum assignments. Prerequisite: FPA 372 or 373 and prior approval.
Provides students with the opportunity to learn and practise the technical and management skills and to take on senior roles and responsibilities associated with creating a performing arts production. Individual assignments will vary according to the needs of the production season. Students can expect to devote approximately 250 hours to their FPA 473 production practicum assignments. Prerequisite: one of FPA 372, FPA 372 (with STT  title), FPA 373, FPA 472, FPA 472 (with STT title) and prior approval.
A studio course focusing on creative collaborations between artists of different disciplines. The emphasis is on the creation, analysis and critique of new compositions created in collaboration between senior students in dance, film, music, theatre and visual art. Prerequisite: One FPA studio course at the upper level, a CGPA of 3.0 and an overall average of 3.5 in FPA courses.
This course permits students to explore the relationships among the arts by undertaking creative projects involving more than one art form. Students will work under the close supervision of one or more faculty and will be required to discuss their work on a regular basis with others involved in the course. Prerequisite: will vary according to the topic.
Critical study of contemporary issues in the fine and performing arts, with emphasis on concerns common to diverse artistic disciplines and the interaction between art and society.
Continuation of FPA 811. Prerequisite: FPA 811.
A selected topics studio course with an emphasis on interdisciplinary artistic projects. Prerequisite: FPA 811 or 812.
Study of particular artistic techniques or issues. The topic varies from term to term.
Intensive studio work, concentrated in a particular art discipline, but with opportunity to involve interdisciplinary materials and techniques.
Continuation of FPA 883. Prerequisite: FPA 883.
Study of particular artistic techniques or issues. The topic varies from term to term.
No description available
No description available
No description available
An introduction to basic vocabulary, grammatical structures, and speech patterns. Emphasis on oral expression and listening comprehension. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: never studied or experienced French before. Students with credit for FREN 099 may not take this course for further credit.
A comprehensive introduction to basic grammatical structures, vocabulary and pronunciation. Emphasis on oral communication skills. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: FREN 099 or 120 or less than grade 11 French (or equivalent based on placement test). Students with credit for FREN 100 may not take this course for further credit.
Continuation of FREN 121. Designed to improve speaking and writing abilities by introducing more complex structures and vocabulary. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: FREN 100 or 121 or grade 11 French (or equivalent based on placement test). Students with credit for FREN 101 may not take this course for further credit.
For students with little or no background in French who wish to acquire the ability to read periodicals, journals and basic literary and academic texts. May not be taken by students with French 12 or with FREN 151 (or 210) or higher (or their equivalents).
Designed to consolidate and expand knowledge of the language. Strong emphasis on oral expression and listening comprehension to develop communicative skills. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: FREN 101 or 122 or grade 12 French (or equivalent based on placement test). May not be taken by students from French immersion, programme cadre or IB students. Students with credit for FREN 151 may not take this course for further credit.
Designed to improve listening and reading comprehension. Emphasis on accuracy in oral and written communication. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: grade 12 French with a grade of A or FREN 151 or 210 (or equivalent based on placement test). May not be taken by FREN 212 or 216 students. Students with credit for FREN 201 may not take this course for further credit.
Designed for French immersion program students who wish to refine their oral and written language competence. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: for French immersion program students or those who have studied in a Francophone milieu. Placement test required after registration. Students with credit for FREN 201 or 211 or 216 may not take this course for further credit.
Designed to develop listening comprehension and oral expression. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: FREN 201 or 211. May be taken concurrently with FREN 212. Students with credit for FREN 205, 300 or 330 may not take this course for further credit.
Through the study of French pronunciation, students will improve their listening and speaking abilities. Drill exercises, intensive practice as well as the rehearsal of drama skits and short French plays will allow students to speak French individually and in groups. Prerequisite: FREN 201 or 211. May be taken concurrently with FREN 212. Students with credit for FREN 312 may not take this course for further credit.
A reading and writing course with emphasis on vocabulary and logical structure in written expression. Instruction in class, in lab and online. Prerequisite: FREN 201 or 211, or FREN 212 or 216, or with a grade of A, FREN 151 or 210. In the latter case, FREN 211 and 221 may be taken concurrently. Students with credit for FREN 202 may not take this course for further credit.
Focusing on grammar and grammatical analysis, and the process of writing. Instruction in class, in lab and online. Prerequisite: FREN 202 or 221, or, with a grade of A, FREN 201 or 211, or, with a grade of A, FREN 212 or 216. Students with credit for FREN 206 may not take this course for further credit.
Being able to read a French text (in its many forms) and understand it are the main objectives of this course. A series of progressive exercises combined with stylistics theory will give students the necessary tools to approach any text with confidence. Prerequisite: FREN 212 (If B), or 221 or Placement Test.
An introduction to French literary studies with selected works in poetry and prose, including theatre. Attention will be given to methods of analysis. The course will be conducted in French. Prerequisite:    FREN 222 (students with B+ in FREN 221 can take 222 concurrently with 245).  Students with credit for FREN 240 or 230 cannot take FREN 245 for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to some fundamental questions about human behavior that can be answered by the study of the language forms, structure, and use. Topics such as how did language begin? Where is French from, and how did it change over the years? How does French vary from place to place, from context to context? Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222 (Students with B+ in FREN 221 can take 222 concurrently with FREN 275). Prerequisite:    FREN 206 or 222 (students with B+ in FREN 221 can take 222 concurrently with FREN 275).  Students who have credit for FREN 270 or 370 cannot complete this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Designed to develop ability in oral expression. Instruction in class and in lab. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222 or, with a grade of A and permission of instructor, FREN 205 or 215.
A writing course to improve organization and argumentation, paragraph structures and lexical accuracy. Instruction in class and online. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222, or, with a grade of A, FREN 202 or 221. Writing.
Continuation of FREN 222, with emphasis on grammatical analysis. Instruction in class and online. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222 (or equivalent based on placement test). Students with credit for FREN 302 may not take this course for further credit.
Choosing the right word for the right context is the principal aim of this course. Through many practical exercises and a variety of simple translation techniques students will expand their vocabulary and become more familiar with the nuances of the French language. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222. Students with credit for FREN 311 may not take this course for further credit.
Selected studies in French language, linguistics, literature or civilization. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222, and FREN 230 or 240, and 270. May be taken only by field school participants. Corequisite: FREN 321, 322.
Selected studies in French language, linguistics, literature or civilization. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222, and FREN 230 or 240, and FREN 270. May be taken only by field school participants. Corequisite: FREN 320, 322
Selected studies in French language, linguistics, literature or civilization. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222, and FREN 230 or 240, and FREN 270. May be taken only by field school participants. Corequisite: FREN 320, 321.
A multidisciplinary analysis of socio-cultural aspects of French speaking countries, involving written work and oral participation. Prerequisite: FREN 206 or 222 or permission of instructor. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to notions paramount to the study of French accents such as linguistic norm, representations and attitudes, phoneme and allophones for instance. Analyses on short corpora will provide students a hands-on experience and will lead to discussions about relevant methodologies. Prerequisite: FREN 275 or 270.
The aim of this course is to offer students a comprehensive view of a set of issues pertaining to the French language in society. The topics studied in class include: social categories and language variation, new technologies and language evolution, language and identity, and language ideology. Prerequisite: FREN 275 or 270.
An introduction to the study of the form, structure, evolution and use of French words. Selected topics related to the study of French words in Morphology, Terminology, Orthography, Etymology, Diaphasic and Diatopic Varieties and Language use. Prerequisite: FREN 275 or 270.
The study of selected topics in French Applied Linguistics. The course may be developed around one or a combination of areas such as Computer-mediated-communication, language pathology, language socialization, translation, error analysis, language in contexts, language planning. Prerequisite: FREN 275 or 270.
The study of selected works of Qubecois and Canadian literatures written in French. Prerequisite: FREN 245 or 240. Students with credit for FREN 230 cannot take FREN 340 for further credit.
An introduction of the history of French Literature from the Middle Ages to the late eighteenth century. Prerequisite: FREN 245 or 230 or 240.
The study of a selection of literary works written in French emphasizing international and/or transnational relations. The course may focus on one or several literatures from North America, Europe, the Caribbean, North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. Prerequisite: FREN 245 or 230 or 240.
An introduction to the history of French literature from the late eighteenth century to the late twentieth century. Prerequisite: FREN 245 or 230 or 240.
Explores various cultural topics of French and Francophone countries (Europe, America, Africa, Asia) with the aid of visual and/or media text documents. Prerequisite: FREN 222. Students with B+ in FREN 221 may take FREN 222 and FREN 352 concurrently.
Third term of work experience in the French Co-operative Education program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Co-op Education co-ordinator two terms in advance. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: a minimum of 60 units including French courses to the level of FREN 222 (or equivalent placement), successful completion of FREN 285, and a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Translating from English to French allows students to explore and understand the nuances of the French language as well as language transfer. By learning precision in the use of vocabulary, grammar, and syntax, students will improve their writing skills. They will also learn how to identify context in a variety of documents. Prerequisite: FREN 301W or permission of the instructor.
Translating from English to French allows students to explore and understand the nuances of the French language as well as language transfer. By learning precision in the use of vocabulary, grammar, and syntax, students will improve their writing skills. They will also learn how to identify context in a variety of documents. Prerequisite:    FREN 301W or permission of the department.   Writing.
Examines cognitive, linguistic and social processes involved in the acquisition of a second language, with a focus on the acquisition of French, especially of French as an official language and in a minority language context. Prerequisite: FREN 275 or 370, and FREN 301. Students with credit for FREN 310W may not take this course for further credit.
Selected topics in the structure of French. Topics will vary according to the faculty and student interests. Develops one or a combination of subjects pertaining to French morphology, syntax, (lexical) semantics and phonology/phonetics. Prerequisite:    FREN 270 or 275, and FREN 301.  Students with credit for FREN 411, 412, 413 or 415 may not complete this course if topic is the same. Quantitative.
This course aims at providing analytical tools for studying different genres of discourse in French such as billboard advertising, political speeches, literary texts, scientific papers, and pamphlets. Prerequisite: FREN 270 or 275, and FREN 301W.
Studies of selected topics in French historical linguistics. Subject matter may include external history, history of sound changes, morphological and syntactic changes. Prerequisite:    FREN 270 or 275 and 301W.  Students with credit for FREN 408 may not complete this course for further credit.
The subject matter will vary according to faculty and student interests. Selected aspects of French linguistic theories as they apply to the study, teaching and/or learning of French. Prerequisite:    FREN 270 or 275, and 301W.  Students with credit for FREN 414 may not take this course for further credit.
Study of selected topics in French dialectal variation. Subject matter may include, but is not limited to, French Dialects, Canadian French and French Creoles. Prerequisite: FREN 301 and 370. Students with credit for FREN 421 and/or 422 may not take this course for further credit.
Prerequisite:    FREN 301W and FREN 245 or 230 or 240.
Advanced study of selected works belonging to a literary genre (novel, theatre, poetry, etc). May be organized by author, period, movement, theme or approach. Prerequisite: FREN 301W and, FREN 245 or 230 or 240. Students with credit for FREN 472, 474 or 475 must seek permission of the department to take this course for further credit.
Advanced study of selected works composed between the Middle Ages and the late eighteenth century. May be organized by period, movement, theme or approach. Prerequisite:    FREN 301W and FREN 230 or 240 or 245.  Students with credit for FREN 461, 462 or 463 must seek permission of the Department to take this course for further credit
Advanced study of selected works written between the late eighteenth century and the late twentieth century. May be organized by period, movement, theme or approach. Prerequisite: FREN 301W and, FREN 245 or 240 or 230. Students with credit for FREN 467, 470 or 475 must get permission from the department to take this course for further credit.
Advanced study of selected works written from the late twentieth century to the present. May be organized by author, theme or approach. Prerequisite: FREN 301W and, FREN 245 or 230 or 240. Students with credit for FREN 475 need departmental authorization to take this course for credit.
Study of selected topics relating to French and Francophone cultures or films. Prerequisites: FREN 230 or 240 or 245; FREN 270 or 275; and FREN 301W.
A study of French and francophone literature from an interdisciplinary point of view. Topics will vary to include different disciplines: history, cultural studies, gender studies or the study of the relationships between literature and other arts. Prerequisite:    FREN 301W and FREN 230 or 240 or 245.
Study in depth of an area covered by a French literature or linguistics course in the 400 division. Prerequisite:    FREN 301W and one of 230, 240, 245, 270 or 275. Corequisite:  To be taken in conjunction with a 400 division course in French linguistics or literature.
Fourth term of work experience in the French Co-operative Education program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Co-op Education co-ordinator two terms in advance. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: a minimum of 75 units including French courses to the level of FREN 301W (or equivalent placement), successful completion of FREN 385, and a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Guided readings in selected topics. May only be taken during the last terms of study; required as a preparation for the honors essay but may be taken by other students with consent of the instructor.
Candidates for honors will be required to submit a major paper on a topic of a comprehensive nature in literature or linguistics to be approved by the course chair. Prerequisite: FREN 491 and at least nine 400 division courses in French literature and/or French linguistics.
The study of research methods and tools used in French linguistics and/or French literature. Planning a long term research project.
Explores a selection of classic problems of the structure of French (phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicology or semantics) applying a variety of theoretical viewpoints, from a diachronic or synchronic perspective.
Explores, from a variety of diachronic or synchronic theoretical viewpoints, a selection of classic problems of the structure of French not covered in FREN 804.
New trends and theoretical developments in the acquisition of French as a second language. Study of the contribution of linguistic theory to the teaching and learning of French.
Explores a selection of themes in the pragmatics of French, for example paralinguistic features of French, phonostylistics, contrastive structures (French/English). A variety of practical applications may be envisaged: pedagogy, translation, stylistic analysis, etc.
An in-depth study of one of the many varieties of French (in France and in the world) from linguistic and/or sociolinguistic viewpoints, i.e. popular French, Canadian French, French-based Creoles.
Studies the contributions made by a selection of French language specialists to the evolution of various aspects of  linguistic theory.
Explores the relationship between language, society and identity in France and/or in the French-speaking world. The study, from an integrative point of view, of social markers in speech, conversational rules, objective versus subjective norms, attitudes towards language variation and their implications among French speakers. French bilingualism, language planning and the place of French in the world.
A study of the language in use, discourse strategies, the enunciation devices of various types of texts, both traditional and non-traditional genres such as oral or para-literary texts.
A study of a selection of significant works by contemporary French critics (Barthes, Genette, Kristeva). The application of their theories and models to the analysis of specific works. May concentrate on one area, e.g. narratology, semiotics, etc.
Provides a framework for a detailed study of French literature within its socio-cultural context.
Explores the relationships between French literature and other arts or applies concepts and models developed in other disciplines to the study of French literature.
An in-depth study of a theme or an aspect of French Canadian Literature through different literary works.
An in-depth study of a topic relating to a period or a movement in French literary history, such as: Middle Ages, Renaissance, Classical Period, Enlightenment, Romanticism, Realism, Naturalism, Existentialism.
An in-depth study of one writer from a specific theoretical perspective (psychological, historical, linguistic).
An in-depth study of a selection of French and/or Francophone films. The approach chosen by the course instructor may be thematic, by genre, author, region, or focus on a specific theoretical perspective.
No description available
No description available
No description available
A survey of how humans shape their world, considered from spatial and environmental perspectives. Themes include population, culture, resources, livelihood, cities. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Current world-scale problems are examined in their regional and global contexts, with emphasis being placed on the importance of dynamics of the natural environment in human affairs. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An examination of climate change, its interaction with water availability, and how humans cope with these altered circumstances.   Students who have completed GEOG 102 prior to the fall 2011 term may not complete this course for further credit.
An introduction to landforms, climates, soils and vegetation; their origins, distributions, interrelationships and roles in the ecosystem. Laboratory work and field trips are included. Breadth-Science.
The geographical character of Canada; the Canadian environment; regional differences in socio-economic growth. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An examination of landforms, processes, laws, and theories of development; types and distributions. Prerequisite: GEOG 111 or EASC 101.
A review of the basic principles and processes involved in physical and dynamic climatology, with particular emphasis on global distributions and change. Prerequisite: GEOG 111. Quantitative.
An examination of the abiotic and biotic factors that control the distribution and development of plant communities, including climatic and geological change. Prerequisite: GEOG 111. Students granted credit for GEOG 215 may not be granted credit for BISC 204.
The basic concepts of economic geography, involving consideration of the spatial organization and development of economic and resource based systems. Prerequisite: GEOG 100.
Systematic consideration of the spatial and environmental bases of societies, in historical and cultural perspective. Prerequisite: GEOG 100.
An introduction to the interpretation of maps and air photographs. Prerequisite: GEOG 100 or 221 or 241; and 111.
An introduction to basic quantitative methods and software for the solution of geographic problems. Topics include spatial data measurements, central tendency measures, simple probability theory and distributions, inferential methods, and correlation analysis. Prerequisite: GEOG 100 or 221 or 241; and 111. Quantitative.
Uses of aerial photography and air photo interpretation in geography. The course is divided into four sections: (1) technical background regarding aerial photography and photo interpretation; (2) air photo interpretation and mapping; (3) application of air photo interpretation; and (4) introduction to remote sensing. Prerequisite: GEOG 100 or 221 or 241; and 111. Quantitative.
A basic overview of Geographical Information Systems and Science; GIS software, hardware, data structures and models; spatial data, operations and algorithms; practical applications and limitations. Prerequisite: GEOG 100 or 111 or permission of instructor. Students with credit for GEOG 354 may not take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
This course will introduce basic concepts in the study of urban geography by systematically identifying and examining major components of urban structure. Prerequisite: GEOG 100 or 102 or 30 units. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A study of the geographical character of a major world region. Prerequisite: at least nine units. This course may not be counted more than once toward a degree. Breadth-Social Sciences.
This course will provide a systematic introduction to urbanization in Canada. Topics addressed will include Canadian urbanization as compared with other nations, especially the United States, metropolitan centres, resource towns, and the internal structure of cities. Prerequisite: GEOG 100 or 162 or permission of instructor.
An examination of the physical landscape, the migration process, resource exploitation and the development of the settlement patterns. Prerequisite: at least nine units.
A survey of geographical thinking within the Western tradition, from the Greeks to modern times. This course looks at efforts, both mainstream and eccentric, to describe and explain the world (places, peoples, environments, Earth). Extensive use of primary texts. Prerequisite: completion of 45 units.
A study of contemporary geographical concepts in historical perspective. The course will examine traditional approaches to the subject matter of geography, giving particular attention to present day methodological debate and foci of interest. Prerequisite: completion of 30 units, including 15 in geography.
First term of work experience in the geography co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Students in the BA and the BSc program should apply to the environment co-operative education program. Prerequisite:    acceptance in the environment co-operative education program.
Second term of work experience in the geography co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: GEOG 302 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
A twelve-day field camp with a focus on various measuring, surveying, recording and mapping skills in branches of physical geography. A selected project will be completed either by a team or by an individual. Field camp locations will vary from year to year. The camp will be held immediately following the end of final examinations in April. Prerequisite: GEOG 213 and one of GEOG 214 or 215. Prerequisite/Corequisite: one of GEOG 311, 313, 314, 315, 316 or 317.
Introduction to the hydrologic cycle, with an emphasis on the hydrology of British Columbia; description and analysis of the processes of water movement and storage measurements and analysis of hydrologic data. Prerequisite:    GEOG 213 or 214; GEOG 251 or one of STAT 101, 201, 203 (formerly 103), or 270.   Quantitative.
An introduction to the occurrence and origin of natural hazards such as volcanic eruptions, landslides, etc. Interaction between the relevant natural processes and society will be examined, as well as prediction of natural events and the amelioration of the effects of such events within different cultural contexts. Prerequisite: GEOG 111 or EASC 101. Students with credit for GEOG 212 may not take this course for further credit.
Intermediate analysis in fluvial and coastal geomorphology with particular reference to British Columbia. Prerequisite: GEOG 213. Quantitative.
An introduction to atmospheric science with emphasis on processes in the boundary layer; examination of the radiation, energy and water balances; description and analysis of heat and mass transfer. Prerequisite: GEOG 214 or permission of instructor. Recommended: MATH 151 and 152 or MATH 154 and 155 or MATH 157 and 158. Quantitative.
Physical and biological characteristics of regional ecosystems; historical evolution of biomes, management of biotic resources. Prerequisite: GEOG 215 or BISC 204.
Introduction to the cycling of essential chemical elements through ecosystems. Interactions among biological, hydrological, and geological controls on the structure and function of ecosystems and the spatial-temporal scales of elemental cycling are emphasized. Environmental problems resulting from disturbance to natural equilibria in the elemental cycles are examined. Prerequisite: GEOG 215 or BISC 204 or permission of the instructor. Quantitative.
An introduction to the study of soils: physical, chemical and biological properties of soils; soil formation, description, classification, survey and use. Field and laboratory techniques of soil analysis. Prerequisite: one of GEOG 213, 214, 215, or CHEM 121.
A survey of soils and their management. Focuses on the role of soils in the environment; their physical, chemical and biological properties; processes of degradation (including erosion, desertification, pollution, and nutrient depletion); and the maintenance of healthy soils. Prerequisite: completion of 45 units including GEOG 111. Students who have taken GEOG 317 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Science.
An analysis of the use and development of natural resources from a geographic, economic and institutional perspective. Prerequisite: at least 30 units including GEOG 221.
An analysis of the use and development of natural resources from a geographic, economic and institutional perspective. Prerequisite: at least 30 units including GEOG 221. Writing.
An examination of the factors affecting industrial location and the geographic organization of production systems within and among firms from the perspectives of national, regional and urban development. Prerequisite: GEOG 221.
An empirical and theoretical examination of the geographical aspects of transportation systems. Prerequisite: GEOG 221 and 241.
Spaces, places, landscapes, and scales of consumption emphasizing commodity cultures, marketing, retail, ideology, subjectivity, objects, technology, and tourism. Prerequisite: GEOG 221 or 261.
Factors underlying the changing geography of tourism. Issues of demand, supply and impact are examined. Prerequisite: GEOG 221 or 241, or permission of the instructor.
Elements of cartographic analysis, design and visualization, with an emphasis on digital mapping, animation techniques, cartographic software and internet mapping. Prerequisite: GEOG 255. Quantitative.
Advanced quantitative techniques for spatial analysis of geographic data and patterns. Topics include geostatistics, spatial interpolation, autocorrelation, kriging, and their use in geographic problem solving with spatial analysis software. Prerequisite: GEOG 251 or one of STAT 101, 201, 203 (formerly 103), or 270. Quantitative.
Applied remote sensing and image analysis. Topics include air photo interpretation, multispectral and color photography, thermal imagery, multispectral scanners, microwave applications, satellite imagery. The relation of remote sensing information and Geographic Information Systems is discussed. Digital interpretation and photogrammetric analysis will be emphasized. Prerequisite: GEOG 253. Quantitative.
An examination of technical components of GIS. Topics include spatial representations, generalization and data management; computational algebra and set theory; digital surfaces and terrain models. Prerequisite: GEOG 255. Quantitative.
3D geovisualization methods, concepts and theory. Bridges conventional geographic visualization with emerging 3D methods. Emphasizes user-centered design and cognitive implications. Prerequisite: GEOG 255.
Current concepts and approaches in urban geography regarding the development of built environments. Central concerns are the relationships between urbanization and the state, capital, and civil society at various scales. Prerequisite: at least 30 units, including one of GEOG 221, 241, or 261.
Current concepts and approaches in urban geography regarding the development of built environments. Central concerns are the relationships between urbanization and the state, capital, and civil society at various scales. Prerequisite: at least 30 units, including one of GEOG 221, 241, or 261. Writing.
An introduction to the major approaches and key ideas of the professions of urban governance; urban planning and urban policy. Through a focus on contemporary theory, process-based understanding, and specific issues and examples, the course examines key trends and interventions and promotes critical reflection on urban development.  Prerequisite: 30 units including one of GEOG 241 or 261.
Examines the reciprocal influences between humans and nature through time. Topics may include settlement, agriculture, technology, politics, urbanization, science, and conservation. Prerequisite: 45 units with nine of lower division Geography units. This course is identical to HIST 377 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
Theoretical approaches to problems of the interactions of political decisions and power structures with territorial organization. Prerequisite: GEOG 241.
Theoretical approaches to problems of the interactions of political decisions and power structures with territorial organization. Prerequisite: GEOG 241. Writing.
A survey - from geographic perspective - of data, concepts, themes, and debates in the study of population. Particular concern for population numbers, fertility, mortality, and migration over space and time. Prerequisite: GEOG 221 or 241.
Theories and concepts of regional development and planning in the advanced capitalist and third worlds; methods of spatial analysis. Prerequisite: GEOG 221 and 241.
An examination of the relationship between agricultural production systems and the biophysical environment, with emphasis on the origins of, and potential solutions to, agri-environmental degradation. Prerequisite: GEOG 221.
A survey of health issues from a geographic perspective, including major spatial influences shaping the health status of populations and health-place relationships. Prerequisite:    at least 30 units, including either GEOG 241 or HSCI 130.
Geographical perspectives on gender and sexuality. This course investigates feminist theory in geography and its analysis of home, city, nation, state, global economy, colonialism, and migration. Prerequisite: GEOG 241.
Examines the relationship between nature and society, covering the dominant geographical approaches to human-environment interaction, and their social, spatial, and political economic effects. Prerequisite: GEOG 221 or EVSC 200 (formerly ENPL 200). Writing.
Research design process and qualitative research methods for human geographers with emphasis on case study and survey-based research. Provides the rationale, tools, and skills students need to design, conduct and analyze qualitative research. Prerequisite: One of GEOG 221 or 241 and 8 units of upper division geography courses.
Third term of work experience in the geography co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: GEOG 303 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
Fourth term of work experience in the geography co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: GEOG 402 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
Designed for upper level geography major and honors students who wish to continue research started in conjunction with an earlier course. Prerequisite: permission to enter directed readings courses requires written consent of both the faculty member willing to supervise the research, and the chair of the department.
Designed for upper level geography major and honors students who wish to continue research started in conjunction with an earlier course. Prerequisite: permission to enter directed readings courses requires written consent of both the faculty member willing to supervise the research, and the chair of the department.
Optional fifth term of work experience in the geography co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: GEOG 403 and readmission to the environment co-operative education program.
An examination of hydrologic processes at different scales; effects of climate and land use change on the hydrologic cycle; application of hydrologic models; recent research developments in selected sub-fields of hydrology. Prerequisite:    one of GEOG 311, 313, or 314; one of GEOG 251 or one of STAT 101, 201, 203 (formerly 103), or 270.   Quantitative.
An examination of glacial processes and environments emphasizing landscapes and sediments resulting from the movement of ice, water, and sediment; application of field techniques. Prerequisite: GEOG 313; EASC 201 recommended.
An examination of glacial processes and environments emphasizing landscapes and sediments resulting from the movement of ice, water, and sediment; application of field techniques. Prerequisite: GEOG 313; EASC 201 recommended. Writing.
Advanced treatment of topics in glacial and fluvial geomorphology with emphasis on current research problems. Prerequisite: GEOG 313.
An examination of recent advances in climatology and application of atmospheric process models. Prerequisite: GEOG 314. Quantitative.
A survey of advanced biogeographic theory, and techniques of vegetation analysis. The application of these theories and techniques to biotic resources management is also examined. Prerequisite: GEOG 315.
Advanced treatment of topics in soil science: soil physics, soil chemistry, soil biology, soil classification and/or forest soils. Prerequisite: GEOG 317.
Advanced treatment of topics in soil science: soil physics, soil chemistry, soil biology, soil classification and/or forest soils. Prerequisite: GEOG 317. Writing.
A critical study of selected cultural landscapes, practices and meanings in light of recent theoretical developments in geography. Prerequisite: GEOG 325 or 381 or 387.
A geographic study of 'development' and 'underdevelopment' with particular references to selected lesser developed regions. Prerequisite: at least 60 units including GEOG 111, 221, and 241. This course is identical to LAS 422 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
Relationships between multinational corporations and local development with reference to resource based towns in British Columbia. An analysis of the implications of changes in employment, organization, technology and resource utilization for community economic development. Prerequisite: at least 60 units including GEOG 323 or 383.
Selected topics in the geography of tourism. Topics emphasize policy, planning and management issues associated with tourism. Prerequisite: GEOG 327, or permission of the instructor.
Comparative analysis of forest industries, ecosystems  and policies, and their lessons for forest management in British Columbia. Topics include tropical deforestation and carbon sequestration, the wilderness debate, and forests in culture and the visual arts. Prerequisite: GEOG 315, or 322, or 389.
Examination of the particular challenges associated with production in nature; of the geography of environmental 'goods' and 'bads' across different social and biophysical landscapes; and of the environmental conflicts that frequently arise. Prerequisite: GEOG 322 or 389.
An investigation into the major themes and arguments in the environmental histories of North America, emphasizing how different individuals and groups have used, perceived, and managed their environments over time. Prerequisite: 60 units including eight of upper division geography. This course is identical to HIST 432 and students cannot take both courses for credit. Students with credit for HIST 485 in 2001-3 cannot take this course for further credit.
An examination of the emergent field of law and geography. Topics will include the legal-geographic dimensions of property; the regulation of public space; rights; nature; colonial dispossession; and globalization and the law. Prerequisite:    60 units, including eight of upper division geography.
An examination of the emergent field of law and geography. Topics will include the legal-geographic dimensions of property; the regulation of public space; rights; nature; colonial dispossession; and globalization and the law. Prerequisite:    60 units, including eight of upper division geography.   Writing.
An evaluation of the nature of urbanization, having specific reference to theories of urban spatial structure and to comparisons of urbanization in Canada and abroad. Prerequisite: at least 60 units including GEOG 362.
The evaluation of regional development planning and practice; case study analysis of regional development programs with particular reference to Canadian experience. Prerequisite: 60 units including GEOG 383.
This course introduces the student to the principles and practices of resource planning within a Canadian context. Special attention is paid to land-use planning as it relates to major resource sectors. Prerequisite: one of GEOG 322, 363, 383, or 389.
An examination of environmental processes as they influence, and are influenced by, urban development, with attention to implications for urban policy and planning. Prerequisite: enrolment in the Post Baccalaureate Program in Sustainable Community Development or 60 units; and one of GEOG 351, 362, 383, 389 or SCD 301 (formerly CED 301).
Spatial models for the representation and simulation of physical, human and environmental processes. GIS and spatial analysis software are used in the laboratory for model development, from problem definition and solution to visualization. Prerequisite: GEOG 251 or one of STAT 101, 201, 203 (formerly 103), or 270; one of GEOG 351, 352, 353 355 or 356. Quantitative.
Computational aspects of environmental remote sensing. Topics include digital image processing, image enhancement, sensor systems, statistical extraction, and environmental analysis. Prerequisite: GEOG 352 and 353. Quantitative/Writing.
A critical examination of advanced topics in GIS, such as: boundary definition, expert systems and artificial intelligence, error and uncertainty, and scale in a digital context. Examines social applications and the roles of GIS in society. Students will design original projects, including data acquisition, analysis, and web site development. Prerequisite: GEOG 355. Prerequisite/Corequisite: GEOG 352. Students with credit for GEOG 452 may not take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
The concepts, theories, and technology behind interactive and immersive interface technologies used for geospatial visualization. Applications and implications for GIScience and spatial knowledge acquisition. Combines GIScience, spatial cognition, and virtual environments/interface research perspectives. Prerequisite: GEOG 351 and 356 (or permission of instructor). Students who have taken GEOG 457 (STT) Geospatial Virtual Environments in fall 2005 or fall 2006 may not take this course for further credit.
A study of the geographical character of a major world region. Prerequisite: at least 60 units including eight of upper division geography courses.
Selected themes in the geography of the United States, addressing the biophysical environment, culture and landscape, resources and livelihood, population and settlement. Prerequisite: at least 60 units including eight of upper division geography courses.
The course introduces students to a geographical analysis of patterns of Latin American development and planning. It is divided into two sections: geographical/historical development of selected countries; and analysis of common Latin American developmental models. A geographical perspective is used which stresses the interconnectedness of spatial and socio-economic structures. Prerequisite: 60 units including eight of upper division geography.
An examination of environmental issues facing rural people and their livelihoods in China from a political ecology perspective. Topics include: environmental history and concepts of nature; property rights in land and trees; agriculture; forests; wildlife and biodiversity; grasslands; and water. Prerequisite: GEOG 389.
The topics will vary from term to term depending on the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: 75 units including 30 in geography.
The topics will vary from term to term depending on the interests of faculty and students. Prerequisite: 75 units including 30 in geography.
All candidates for honors will be required to submit a major paper on a geographical topic to be selected in consultation with the department. Prerequisite: 105 units and consent of supervisor. See a departmental academic advisor for details.
A fieldwork based study of a selected region conducted in an international setting. Emphasis is placed on how to understand landscapes by relating concepts and models with direct observation, inference and collection of field evidence, as well as published literature on the selected region. Prerequisite: at least 60 units including 12 units of upper division geography courses.
Introduction to graduate studies in the Department of Geography at Simon Fraser University, covering formal requirements and practical considerations.
Completion of GEOG 600, with an emphasis on the preparation and presentation of the research proposal.
Qualitative and quantitative techniques relevant to human geographic research.
Contemporary and historical modes of analysis in human geography.
Research design, data collection and quantitative methods in physical geography.
Conceptual and methodological bases of current hydrologic research.
Glacial landform-process models; field study of glacial landforms and sediments.
An examination of current conceptual and methodological issues in fluvial geomorphology based on analyses of the primary research literature.
Recent theoretical developments in physical climatology.
Recent developments in paleoecology and the study of Quaternary environments.
Soil physics, soil chemistry, soil biology and/or forest soils.
Geographic perspectives on selected topics in economy and environment in Canadian and international contexts.
Conditions in the Third World: a review of theories and geographical solutions.
The influence of the policies and structures of multinational corporations on regional economic change.
Geographic perspectives on society and the city in Canadian and international contexts.
Evolution of built environments in urban contexts: morphological change and societal processes.
Regional development in theory and practice with particular reference to resource based hinterland regions.
Economic, social and political  aspects of conservation and resource management.
Relationships between cultural geography and related fields, particularly social theory and current philosophy.
Perspectives on the description, analysis and prediction of geographical processes using spatial modeling and decision-making in a GIS environment.
Theory and applications of analytical processing procedures used with multispectral remote sensing data.
Examines data, data structures and computational methods that underlie GIS description and analysis. Illustrates the social science and science links between computers and geography.
Theoretical and practical training in the acquisition of airborne multispectral remote sensing data.
The concepts, theories and technology behind 3D representation and 3D geovisualization of complex spatial phenomena using emerging interactive, immersive and ubiquitous interface technologies. Combines geovisualization, geospatial interface research, geovirtual environments, GIScience, and spatial knowledge acquisition perspectives. Prerequisite: Enrolment in any graduate program plus permission of the instructor. Graduate students from other disciplines are welcome to take this course.
Geographic aspects of theories of development as they have been applied in Latin America.
Case studies of the inter-relations between the social and political construction of law and space.
A global survey of the geographical context of food production.
Students may only take this course once during their program.
No description available
No description available
No description available
Emphasis on the acquisition of spoken fluency, correct pronunciation, and reading facility. This course will be for all students who have not taken BC grade 12 German or its equivalent.
Continues the work of GERM 102. It should be taken, wherever possible, in the term immediately following GERM 102. Prerequisite: GERM 102 or equivalent.
This is a first year German course intended for absolute beginners who want to acquire some rudimentary reading knowledge of German. Prerequisite: no knowledge of German is required.
Emphasis on oral command, accurate and idiomatic expression; reading of intermediate texts. Prerequisite: GERM 103 or equivalent.
Continues the work of GERM 201. Considerable emphasis will be placed on reading, oral and written command of the language. Prerequisite: GERM 201 or equivalent.
Practice in comprehension, reading, speaking and writing, combined with a review of the essential points of grammar. Prerequisite: GERM 202 or consent of the instructor.
Introduces the social, psychological, and physical dimensions of aging. Largely based on the Canadian context, but will also include international research and knowledge. Prerequisite: Students who have taken GERO 300 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Examination of the aging process from a multi-disciplinary perspective. Physical and health factors in aging, economic and vocational factors in aging, family and community relations of older people, social policy and politics of aging. Throughout the course, emphasis will be placed on normal aging. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students who have taken GERO 101 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
This course examines research methodology applied to the field of gerontology. Key areas covered include: operationalizing gerontological concepts; sampling older populations; longitudinal designs; outcome and process evaluation of seniors' programs; and elementary data analyses. Prerequisite: 60 units.  Recommended: STAT 203 (or equivalent).
This course includes an examination of the development of contemporary understanding and practice of health promotion. Students will be given the opportunity to explore theories and models designed to explain health related behaviors and the determinants of health. Strategies for behavioral change and development of socio-environmental approaches will be discussed in the context of an aging Canadian population. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
Discussion of current issues in applied gerontology. Interdisciplinary orientation, drawing upon resource persons from within the University and practitioners in the community. Course requirements include participation in a group research project. Prerequisite: 60 units. GERO 300, 301 and two of PSYC 357, GERO 420 or KIN 461.
Impact of the macro- and microenvironment as it affects the aged. Discussion of planned housing and institutional living arrangements, territoriality and the need for privacy, home range and use of space, urban planning, responsive design of housing and care facilities, effects of relocation and institutionalization. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
An examination of the ways of adapting counselling theory and practice to meet the needs of older adults and their families. Emphasis will be placed on counselling techniques and outcomes appropriate to the needs of persons living independently, with their families, or in institutional settings. Prerequisite: GERO 300 and PSYC 357 or GERO 420.
An examination of issues related to health and illness among older adults, drawing upon theories and concepts from biological, social and public health sciences. An introduction to assessment and intervention skills useful to persons working with older adults in a broad range of practice settings. Prerequisite: 60 units, GERO 300.
The focus of this course is to provide the student with an in-depth understanding of the process of dying. By examining the process of dying, one's personal response to death as well as society's reaction and responsibilities toward dying, the student will gain new insights in caring for the dying person. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
This course examines specific nutritional conditions and concerns of the aging population. It does so by exploring the nutrient needs of the elderly as determined by physiological changes of aging, metabolic effects of common diseases, and biochemical interactions of medications. The course includes a broad investigation of the psychological, sociological, and physical factors which influence food choice and ultimately nutritional status in aging. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
This course entails a comprehensive interdisciplinary study of families and aging. In addition to providing an overview of theory and research on this topic, a variety of substantive issues will be critically examined, including: families in mid life, sibling relationships, divorce and remarriage, dating in later life, care giving, poverty, elder abuse, and policy development. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
Psychopathology often presents in distinct ways among older adults. The intent of this course is to examine disorders with their onset in later life and those that extend into later years. Students will derive an understanding of the diagnostic criteria for various disorders, prevalence, theories of etiology, and selected empirically validated interventions. Prerequisite: GERO 300. Recommended: GERO 403, PSYC 241. Students who received credit for GERO 411, when the course was offered under this title, may not take this course for further credit.
Selected psychological, sociological, economic, biological and practical aspects of the aging of individuals and populations. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
Selected psychological, sociological, economic, biological and practical aspects of the aging of individuals and populations. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
Selected psychological, sociological, economic, biological and practical aspects of the aging of individuals and populations. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300.
Focuses on all aspects of sex and aging and the issues that arise around sexual behavior as we age. An interdisciplinary perspective, taking into account the physiological, psychological, interpersonal and social influences which shape our understanding of sexuality in the aged. Recommended: GERO 101 or 300. Students who have completed this topic in GERO 410  may not complete this course for further credit.
The structural and behavioral implications of aging. Topics include demographic aspects of aging; the relationship of aging to political, economic, familial and other social institutions; the psychological significance of aging. Prerequisite: 60 units. Recommended: GERO 300. This course is identical to SA 420 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
The aim of this course is to examine linkages between long term care and other service sectors as well as to compare programs and services across community, provincial and national boundaries. A number of key policy issues will be discussed that pertain to the provision of health related services to older adults.
This course deals with the design, implementation and evaluation of health promotion programs and services for older persons. Students will participate in the development and critical analysis of a variety of health initiatives aimed at healthful aging.
This course has been specifically designed to provide training in quantitative data analysis using SPSSx Programming Language with a focus on behavioral research problems in gerontology.
Examines qualitative research methods used in social science research with special emphasis on gerontology. Specific focus will be placed on conducting interviews and participant-observations; field-notes, analyzing text-based data; and writing of qualitative studies.
Provides advanced statistical training for graduate students. Statistical techniques consistent with contemporary research will be highlighted with emphasis on continuous variables and the analysis of change and stability with older adult samples. Examples of techniques to be covered include: linear regression; analysis of variance; exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses; structural equation modelling; invariance analyses; and latent growth curve modelling.
Reviews major theories used in gerontology from diverse fields covering the individual and society, including environment and aging; health and aging; social and family relationships; social change; and behavioural change. Emphasis will be placed on understanding the fundamental assumptions of human aging experience underlying the theories; critical assessment of theoretical propositions; research evidence; and potential for synthesis.
This course presents an in-depth examination of theory, research and policy related to planning, designing, developing and managing housing for independent and semi-independent older adults.
This course focuses on design issues, theory, research and policy relevant to planning, developing and managing institutional living environments for dependent adults.
This course is designed to cover and critically evaluate concepts, models and theories of health promotion and wellness in the aging population. These methods of implementation will be discussed in relation to individual and structural health system issues facing the aged.
Critically evaluates and synthesizes key theory, research and health promotion policy related to the intersection of aging families, communities and health. The principal theoretical perspectives will include: life course theory; social, human and cultural capital; ecological models; political economy; and community empowerment approaches.
Provides an overview of the range of mental illnesses affecting older adults, their respective diagnostic criteria, and empirically validated treatments (disorders with their onset in later life and those that extend into later years). Particular emphasis will be placed on the manner in which psychopathology presents differently among older adults, various theories of aetiology, barriers to diagnosis and treatment, and the social context in which mental illness is understood and treated across cultures.
Looks at the way information and communication technologies are transforming social and healthcare landscapes and explores how new technology impacts on the independence, social participation and quality of life of older people.
This course offers an opportunity to offer a specialized course in an area germane to the program but on a topic that is outside of the regular courses.
The internship consists of one full-time work term. Arrangements for the work terms are made through the Faculty of Arts Co-op Co-ordinator at least one term in advance. For further details, students should refer to the Co-operative Education section of the Calendar. Prerequisite: MA students in good standing with a minimum GPA of 3.0 may apply to enter the co-op internship after satisfactory completion of 16 units.
This course consists of supervised readings in a particular field of specialization relevant to the selected area of concentration.
A project must be written under committee supervision for formal examination as part of the program requirements for students in the project stream.
A thesis must be written under committee supervision for formal examination as part of the program requirements for students in the thesis stream.
No description available
An introduction to the Greek language that helps beginners to help develop survival skills in the most frequently encountered communicative situations. Prerequisite: permission of the instructor. Students with credit for LANG 110 when offered with the same title may not take this course for further  credit.
The aim of the course is to give those who have acquired the basic language skills a better understanding of the basic grammar of the Greek, and to develop their speaking and comprehension skills so that they are able to carry out small conversations. Reading comprehension, and the ability to write small paragraphs will also be emphasized. Prerequisites: GRK 110 or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for LANG 160 when offered with the same title may not take this course  for further credit.
The aim of the course is to continue developing students' Greek language skills so that they communicate in situations that extend beyond the basic level. The mediopassive voice for verbs, irregular classes of nouns, and the structure of subordinate sentences are some of the grammatical topics covered. Students will also receive extensive training in speaking, reading and writing at the level of a simple newspaper article. Prerequisite: GRK 160 or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for LANG 210 when offered with the same title may not take this course for further credit.
Continues the work developed in GRK 210 including further training in speaking, reading and writing at an intermediate level. Prerequisite: GRK 210 or permission from the instructor. Students with credit for LANG 260 when offered with the same title may not take this course for further credit.
These selected topics are offered only through Integrated Studies Programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an Integrated Studies Program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
This selected topic is offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. It explores fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
Selected topics offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. Topics explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through Integrated Studies Programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an Integrated Studies Program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through Integrated Studies Programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an Integrated Studies Program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
These selected topics are offered only through integrated studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. They explore fields of professional practice through interdisciplinary approaches not available in regular academic departments. Prerequisite: admission to an integrated studies program. Variable units 3, 4, 5.
An introduction to issues in the study of sex, sexual identity, and sexual culture. Focused on contemporary theories of sexuality as well as representations in fiction, film and popular media from diverse cultural contexts.   Students who have completed GDST 200 may not complete this course for further credit.
An interdisciplinary study of the social and cultural construction of gender, and how ideas about masculinity and femininity shape current issues, knowledge, popular culture, and social policy. Students who have taken GSWS 100 (or WS 100) at SFU may not take GSWS 101 (or WS 101) for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An historical and comparative survey of feminisms and feminist activism in Western European, North American, and Global communities. Breadth-Humanities.
Examines the lives of Canadian women in the colonial context, including the role of women in European-Aboriginal relations, the founding of New France, and settlement in British North America. Themes such as sexuality, race, work, religion and politics will be explored through the study of primary documents and historical literature. Students who have taken WS 201 under the title Women in Canada, 1600-1920 may not take this course for further credit.
The focus will be on the situation of women in cross-cultural perspective using literary, historical, anthropological and other appropriate sources.
Selected topics on the sexual politics of urban space. May be organized by region, critical approach, or genre.
A study of women's place in society as revealed through the analysis of a variety of media.
An examination of women's autobiographical writings, focusing on self images, self presentations and world views. Prerequisite: 30 units including three units in GSWS.
Explores the nature and conditions of women's paid and unpaid labour in the economy as well as various theories which explain labour market discrimination, the impact of national public policies on women's labour and the transnational interconnections that affect women's paid and unpaid labour. Prerequisite: 30 including three units in GSWS. Students who have completed SA 335 or WS 310 under the title Women and Work may not complete this course for further credit.
Examines from interdisciplinary and international perspectives how development is gendered and creates differential impacts, meanings and processes for women and men around the world. Prerequisite: 15 units. Students who have taken GSWS 310 (or WS 310) Special Topic: Women and Development or GSWS 301 (or WS 301) Special Topic: Gender and Development or GSWS 309 (or WS 309) under the title Gender and Development may not take this course for further credit.
Examines the historical development of women's experiences and identities in Modern Canadian history. Looks closely at the ways in which ethnicity, race, class and sexuality have shaped women's lives, and examines the continuity and changes in work, sexuality, politics and domesticity over the 19th and 20th centuries through the study of primary documents and historical literature. Prerequisite: 15 units. Students who have taken GSWS 202 (or WS 202) may not take this course for further credit
Examines the global division of labor where migrant women as well as immigrant women tend to be exploited in numerous forms, ranging from lack of citizenship rights and erosion of skills to the risk of sexual assault, due to immigration/migration and social policies of various countries. Prerequisite: 15 units. Students with credit for WS 320 Special Topics: Immigrant Women and Economic Security may not complete this course for further credit.
An examination of feminist, Marxist and anti-racist theories pertaining to the historical development, social construction, and interactive nature of race, class and gender relations. Prerequisite: 15 units. Students who have taken either GSWS 301 (or WS 301) or GSWS 310 (or WS 310) as Special Topics: Race, Class and Gender may not take this course for credit.
Conceptualizations of sex have played a fundamental part in the development of evolutionary theories in biology and psychology. At the same time, feminist critiques of these conceptualizations have been a major factor in the development of Feminist Science Studies. The interactions amongst these three approaches are examined, including methodologies, communities of practice and societal implications. Prerequisite: 30 units. Breadth-Humanities/Social Sciences/Science.
An examination of social protest from a historical perspective. Analyzes the relationships between race, class, gender, sexuality and religion within the formation of social movements. Focuses mainly on the North American context. Prerequisite: 15 units. Students who have previously taken GSWS 301 (or WS 301) with the same title may not take this course for further credit.
A specific topic within the field of women's studies, not otherwise covered in depth in regularly scheduled courses, will be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant. Prerequisite:    30 units, including 3 units in GSWS or WS or GDST.
A specific topic within the field of women's studies, not otherwise covered in depth in regularly scheduled courses, will be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant. Prerequisite: 30 units including three units in GSWS or WS or GDST.
A specific topic within the field of women's studies, not otherwise covered in depth in regularly scheduled courses, will be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant. Prerequisite: 15 units.
A specific topic within the field of women's studies, not otherwise covered in depth in regularly scheduled courses, will be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant. Prerequisite: 15 units.
Explores a variety of feminist research methods including the definition of feminist research, the quantitative/qualitative controversy, action research, participant observation, survey, ethnography, case study, oral history, transnational study, interviews and research ethics. Prerequisite: 30 units, including three units in GSWS. Students who have taken GSWS 208 or WS 308 may not take this course for further credit.
Themes and issues relating to the historical and contemporary experiences of aboriginal women in Canada: indigenous theories of gender; evolution and political function of stereotypes of indigenous women  in Canada; history of Canadian legislation regulating indigenous identity; relevance of feminist analysis; and history of activism. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken FNST 322 under this topic may not take this course for further credit. FNST 327 and GSWS 327 (or WS 327) are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Maps the field of masculinity studies and explores its intersections with feminist, postcolonial, queer, and critical race theories. Prerequisite: 15 units.
Introduces students to current debates on gender identity and gender difference from the perspectives of queer subjects. Explores recent theoretical and cultural works on gender from queer, transgender, and feminist perspectives, while examining the challenges they pose to current understanding of sex, gender, sexuality, and the body. Prerequisite: 30 units, including three units in GSWS.   Students who have taken GDST 301, or WS 301 Special Topics: Theorizing Queer Genders may not take this course for further credit.
A special topic in women's or gender studies, to be offered by the Woodward Chair. Prerequisite: 30 units including three units in GSWS.
Overview of theoretical perspectives and available research on debates linked with human reproduction. Reconsideration of the effects of legislation, social policy and social change on contraception, birth, abortion, adoption, eugenics policies, new reproductive technologies, sexualities, and other topics. Historical and contemporary examples will be used. Feminist perspectives will be featured along with other approaches to human reproduction. Prerequisite: this course is identical to CRIM 334 and students may not take both courses for credit. Students who have taken CRIM 416, 417, 418 under the title Law and Reproduction may not take this course for further credit.
Examines issues where ideas about males and females either explicitly or implicitly influence policy makers. Focuses on current public policies and their relationship to women on topics such as sexuality and violence, economic security, race and inequality, and climate change. Prerequisite: 30 units. This course is identical to POL 350 and students may not take both courses for credit. Students who have taken this topic under GSWS 320 (or WS 320) may not take this course for further credit.
Explores recent debates and future directions of feminist thought and introduces students to different models of feminist writing. The writing-intensive component of the course trains students to develop analytical, writing, and research skills through a variety of writing activities and assignments. Prerequisite: 30 units including three units in GSWS. Writing.
Through an examination of the social construction of numeracy, this course will provide an introduction to measurement and difference issues within social justice movements. In analyzing such topics as the relationship between professional, state and community conceptualizations of mathematical competence, students will make use of introductory statistical concepts, methods and argument. Prerequisite: 30 units. Quantitative.
Individual or small group studies of community problems. The students will submit a prospectus for the project at least two months before the study is undertaken. The project will be directed by one of the faculty members of the program. Prerequisite: nine units in women's studies including GSWS 101 (or WS 101) and/or GSWS 102 (or WS102); permission of instructor; approval of course proposal by department.
Provides opportunities for individual tuition at an advanced level. Prerequisite: nine units in women's studies including GSWS 101 (or WS 101) and/or GSWS 102 (or WS102); permission of instructor; approval of course proposal by department.
Provides opportunities for individual tuition at an advanced level. Prerequisite: nine units in women's studies including GSWS 101 (or WS 101) and/or GSWS 102 (or WS 102); permission of instructor; approval of course proposal by department.
A study and critique of feminist theories as they apply to the study of women. Each offering of the course will focus on a particular subset of feminist theories and applications. Prerequisite: 45 units including six units of GSWS or WS or GDST. Students with credit for GSWS 311, 411 or WS 311 or 411 may not complete this course for further credit when subtitled Feminist Psychoanalytic Theories.
A specific topic within the field of women's studies, not otherwise covered in depth in regularly scheduled courses, will be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant. Prerequisite:    45 units, including 6 units in GSWS.
An examination of film theory and practice from a feminist perspective. Prerequisite: 45 units including six units in GSWS or WS courses. Students with credit for GSWS 311, 411, WS 311 or 411 may not complete this course for further credit when subtitled Feminist Psychoanalytic Theories.
First term of work experience in the Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count toward the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: 30 units with a CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Second term of work experience in the Gender, Sexuality, and Women's Studies co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: 45 units with a CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Third term of work experience in the Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: 60 units with a CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Fourth term of work experience in the Women's Studies co-operative education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: 90 units with a CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-operative education co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Examines the globalization of sexual cultures and the emergence of queer cinema and screen culture outside of North America and Europe. Prerequisite:    45 units including six units in GSWS or WS or GDST.
An interdisciplinary examination of North American gender relationships, sexuality, social movements, counterculture, and popular culture in the postwar era, with an emphasis on the 1960s. Prerequisite:    45 units including six units in GSWS.
A seminar-based, interdisciplinary course providing a gendered analysis of violence and resistance, to violence, focusing on political states, conflict and war, individual experiences, and institutional situations through feminist and critical masculinities lenses. Prerequisite:    45 units, including six units in GSWS.  Students with credit for special temporary topics (STT) course GDST 303 Gender, Violence and Resistance may not complete this course for further credit.
An interdisciplinary seminar in methods of research in women's studies. Students will examine theoretical issues in women's studies methodology and study examples of research and criticism from women's studies in history, art/literary criticism, philosophy, psychology and social and natural sciences. Emphasis will be placed on developing a rigorous and creative interdisciplinary approach to problems. Students will apply methods studied in the course to their own areas of concentration.
This course will examine one or two critical issues in the history of women. Canada, England and France are of special interest in this course, but students, with the permission of the instructor, may focus their work on North America and/or Europe generally.
This course will analyze and compare major feminist social and political theories, including those that have emerged from liberal, socialist and radical feminist traditions. The relationship among theories of sexism and political goals and practices will be discussed.
This course will examine the development of feminist aesthetic theories with particular reference to literary, cinematic and/or art forms. The fundamental assumptions of feminist literary and/or art criticism as well as the principles of art forms will be discussed.
This course will focus on one or more social issues and policies in such fields as law, health, economics, social welfare, and science and technology.
This course will focus on relationships between changes in the technological and scientific bases of a society and changes in other major aspects of that society, particularly as they affect women's roles and ideas about women. Emphasis will be on Europe and North America.
Selected topics
Selected topics
Directed studies
Allows students to pursue in greater depth a particular problem in gender, sexuality or women's studies. Registration by consent of instructor only. May be offered as an individual reading course or a small seminar, depending upon student and faculty interest. Prerequisite: GSWS 822.
Thesis
Extended Essays
Comprehensive
Thesis
Field Exam Prerequisite:    WS 822 and five graduate courses.
A survey of Canadian history to 1867. Breadth-Humanities.
Canadian social, political, and economic history from 1867, examining aboriginal/settler relations, immigration, regionalism, foreign policy, economic development, culture, and political movements. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
A comparative exploration of the colonization of North and South America by the various European empires together with the role of Native and African peoples in the Americas, from the late fifteenth century to the onset of political independence three hundred years later. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to the major political, social, economic, cultural, and intellectual developments that have formed modern European society. Breadth-Humanities.
Uses lectures, music, film and images to explore the beliefs and social practices through which sexual identities are created and transformed over time. Introduces some of the main theories and concepts used in the field.
A survey of the history of the world, with a focus on global historical phenomena of the last six centuries. Breadth-Humanities.
An introductory survey of colonization, of social, political and environmental change under colonial rule, and of the stormy history of state-society relations in Africa since independence. Breadth-Humanities.
An introductory survey of the changing societies of the Middle East since 1800. Emphasis will be placed on familiarizing students with the basic aspects of Islamic society, the influence of European imperialism, the modernization of traditional societies, the origins of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and the social and political ferment in the period since the Second World War. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of major themes in Canadian social history from the arrival of Europeans to the present day. Particular attention will be paid to the effects of gender, race and class on the experience of Canadians over time. Recommended: HIST 101 and 102. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of Japanese history from antiquity until the late nineteenth century or early modern period. Prerequisite: students with credit for HIST 206 offered prior to 2002-2 cannot take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of Japanese history from 1868 until 1952 which will examine, among other topics, the establishment of the Japanese colonial empire, the wars with Russia, China and the United States, and the post-war Allied Occupation. Recommended: HIST 205. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of the process and institutions of Spanish colonial administration with emphasis on the clash of European and Amerindian cultures. Recommended: HIST 104. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of Latin American history from Independence (1808-24) to the present: post-Independence political collapse and reconsolidation; Latin America in the world trade system and the changing conditions of economic dependency; nationalist reform (Mexico) and socialist revolution (Cuba), liberalism, populism, and the rise of modernizing military. Treatment by topics and broad historical period rather than country by country. Recommended: HIST 208. Breadth-Humanities.
The emergence and development of American civilization from the establishment of the colonies through the Civil War and Reconstruction. Recommended: HIST 104. Breadth-Humanities.
An analysis of the transformation of American culture from post-Civil War to modern forms. Topics to be discussed will include industrialization, urbanization, foreign policy, cultural and political antagonisms. Recommended: HIST 212. Breadth-Humanities.
Covers Quebec history from the French regime to the recent past, focusing on the evolution of cultural identity, on the nationalist movement, and on the long-standing tension between tradition and modernity. Students who have credit for HIST 328 may not take HIST 214 for further credit.
A broad survey of some of the central developments that have shaped the history of the British Isles from Roman antiquity to the present. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to the world of late Medieval and Renaissance Europe (c.1200-c.1500). Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of early modern European history which will examine, among other topics, the wars of religion, the 17th century revolutions, 16th and 17th century economic development, the scientific revolution, the enlightenment and the political and social character of the old regime. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of European history emphasizing the French Revolution, and Napoleonic Europe and first Industrial Revolution, liberalism and its opponents, agrarian conservatism, liberalism and conservatism, the Revolutions of 1848, the struggles for political unification, the second Industrial Revolution and the origins of the First World War. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of European history from the First World War emphasizing the origins and effects of the World Wars, the emergence of the Soviet Union and of fascism. Breadth-Humanities.
A general, introductory survey of Africa's rich pre-colonial past, its vibrant cultures and sophisticated technologies, far-reaching commercial and political networks, and dynamic (and internally differentiated) social systems. Also discusses the trans-Atlantic trade in African slaves and the arrival of Europeans on African shores.
This course offers a broad survey of the development of classical Islamic civilization. It begins with an examination of the origins of Islam in seventh century Arabia and concludes with the break-up of the Abbasid Caliphate of Baghdad in the 13th century. Emphasis will be placed on gaining an understanding of the doctrines of Islam, the significance of the rise and fall of the early Arab-Islamic empires, and the role of Islam in world history. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of the cultural patterns, social and political forces, and historical contexts that have shaped the Islamic period of Indian history. Special attention will be directed toward the Mughal empire and its decline. Breadth-Humanities.
This course offers a broad survey of the history of China from antiquity to the eve of its modern transformations at the turn of the nineteenth century. It aims to challenge the perception of an unchanging China and to encourage students to develop a critical understanding of the forces integrating and dividing this geo-cultural unit. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of the history of China from the end of the eighteenth century, when traditional Chinese society was arguably at its height of development, to the end of the twentieth century when the social revolutions promised by the Communist regime have clearly failed to materialize. The main objectives are to provide students with vocabularies and tools to understand and interpret the political, social and cultural transformations in modern China and to initiate them in the art and techniques of historical analysis. Breadth-Humanities.
Surveys the history of Greek civilization from Mycenaean Greece to the twentieth century. Prerequisite: students who have taken HIST 307 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
A survey of the history of Christianity from its origins to 1500. Breadth-Humanities.
This course is designed to allow students to pursue in greater depth a particular historical problem. It will be offered either as an individual reading course or in small seminars, depending upon student and faculty interest. Admission only by prior consent of instructor. Students may not take this course more than once or after they have completed 60 units of course work.   Recommended: at least four university level courses in history.
Examines the conceptual problems involved in the historian's attempt to apprehend the past. Focuses on the nature of historical knowledge and explanation, and to the broad systems and patterns in which history has been conceived. Prerequisite: 45 units including 9 units of lower division history.
Examines Alexander in the context of ancient history as well as his legacy, which provides unique insight into why there have been and continue to be illusive and deadly quests for world domination. Prerequisite: 45 units including 9 units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 391 D200 in 1051, HIST 309 E100 in 1061 or HIST 486 E100 in 1074 may not take HIST 304 for further credit.
Selected Topics. Prerequisite: 45 units including 9 units of lower division History.
Examines the first 5 centuries of the Byzantine history, focusing on the state that survived, by twelve hundred years, the collapse of the Western roman empire in the fifth century AD, and follows the evolution of its culture, language, political traditions and religion. Prerequisite: 45 units including 9 units of lower division history.
This course provides a general overview of the social and political history of Tudor and Stuart England. Prerequisite: 45 units including 9 units of lower division history.
Covers Byzantine history from the 9th century and the end of the "Dark Ages" to the end of the Empire in the 15th century and offers students an account of the Byzantine State's and its society's interaction with the Islamic and Christian European world of the west. Prerequisite: 45 units, including 9 units of lower division history.
An examination of the history of modern France from 1789 to the present with a focus on the social, political, and cultural divisions within the French nation resulting from the Revolutionary era, industrialization, the expansion and eventual decolonization of France's colonial empire, and the World Wars and their consequences. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An advanced examination of the complex history and patterns of the Religious Reformation in sixteenth century Europe. Emphasis will be placed on the religious thought of the period, and on its social and political context. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Strongly recommended: HIST 220 or 223. Students who have taken HIST 403 prior to 2005-3 cannot take this course for further credit.
Examines major themes and developments in the political and social history of early modern Europe (1500-1789). Will consider various forces (e.g. religious, cultural, economic, military) that contributed to or challenged the strengthening of state power. While the focus of the course will usually be comparative in nature, it may on occasion also emphasize one particular state. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division History. Students who have taken HIST 318 or HIST 331 prior to 2005-3 may not take HIST 321 for further credit.
Topics in the history of Atlantic and Pacific migrations to the Americas with attention given to the contexts from which the migrants came, why they migrated, and how they adjusted. Examples may be taken from the United States, Canada and Latin America. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An intensive survey of the Canadian prairies, as a political region and as an evolving ecological region within broader American space. Examines both traditional and more modern contests over resource use and policy vis-a-vis indigenous peoples, as well as patterns of prairie literature and visual art. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history credit. Students who have taken The Canadian Prairies as HIST 390 (Studies in History) may not take this course for further credit.
Examines selected themes in the history of Aboriginal peoples of North America from first contact with Europeans to the mid-nineteenth century. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. FNST 325 and HIST 325 are identical and students cannot take both courses for credit.
Examines selected themes in the history of Aboriginal peoples of North America in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. FNST 326 and HIST 326 are identical and students cannot take both courses for credit.
An examination of the history of labor, primarily in English Canada, during the 19th and 20th centuries. The evolution of trade unions and labor-political movements will be examined together with the impact of industrialization, the rise of mass production, changing patterns of immigration and other contexts of working-class culture and material life. Special attention will be paid to British Columbia as a case study. Historically the course examines 'working class history' as a particular way of studying the past. What is the concept of 'the working class'? Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 101, 102 and 204.
A detailed examination of the changing Canadian family, and its relationship to the state, since the eighteenth century. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An examination of major themes in German history from the establishment of a united German Empire in 1871 to the reunification of Germany in 1990. Emphasis will be placed on issues related to the formation of German national identity and the problems associated with modernization and militarism. Attention will be given to the difficulties of Weimar democracy, the nature of the Third Reich, and contrasting developments in East and West Germany after 1949. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Surveys Italian society, politics and culture from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 390 D100 in spring 2007 (1071) may not take this course for further credit.
An examination of major themes in Russian history up to the Revolution of 1917, including the emergence of the modern Russian state; the organization of the empire at the center and the periphery; the contest between imperial, national, and religious identities; social, economic, and cultural transformations; and the Russian Empire's involvement in world politics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 105 and 106.
An examination of the history of the Soviet Union from its creation to its collapse, emphasizing its ideology, culture, role in global politics, and social and economic transformations. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An examination of intellectual developments of early modern Europe (sixteenth to eighteenth centuries) in their broader social, cultural, political or economic contexts. The course will focus on a particular subject e.g. Northern humanism, debates about the nature and social role of women (the querelle de femmes), the Enlightenment. Students will read excerpts from important contemporary sources. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 223 or 224.
An examination of the shift of power among competing European states from the late 19th century until the mid-20th century. Attention will be given to the origins and consequences of the two great European wars and to the policies of Britain, France, Germany, and Russia which brought about the significant changes in the balances of power. Study will be based primarily upon documents from the Chanceries. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history credit. Recommended: HIST 225.
An introduction to the history of the origins and course of the second world war. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 225.
This course provides an outline history of the British Empire, its rise and decline, and discusses the origin and significance of the Commonwealth. In addition there is a detailed account of the 'Westminster Model' of parliamentary democracy, on which the political institutions of many Commonwealth nations are based. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
A writing-intensive examination of selected topics in European history. The content will vary from offering to offering. See department for further information. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students may not take selected topics with HIST 345 for further credit if duplicating content of another history course and vice versa. Writing.
An examination of the economic, social and political history of 20th century South Africa. Particular attention will be paid to the factors which led to the rise of apartheid. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: at least one of HIST 146, 231.
A study of Ottoman society and the impact of Ottoman rule in the Middle East from the conquest of Constantinople to the death of Ataturk, the founder of the Turkish Republic. Emphasis will be on the conflict between preservation and reform in the nineteenth century and on the significance of the Ottoman legacy for twentieth century Turkey and the Arab world. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one of HIST 151, 249, 251.
The intellectual and social history of greater Iran from the Safavids to the twentieth century. Emphasis will be on the relationship between religion and politics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one of HIST 151, 249, 251.
This course examines the role of imperialism in the transformation of societies in the Middle East and North Africa over the last two centuries. Focusing mainly on the cases of Ottoman, British and French empire building, the course discusses the socio-economic, cultural and political changes brought about by the interaction of various segments of local societies with these imperial powers. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one of HIST 151, 249, 251.
An examination of this century's major themes in the history of Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, as well as other states of the Arabian peninsula. Topics to be investigated include the origins of Arab nationalism and Islamic reformism; the origins and development of the Lebanese question; the emergence of the politics of the military in Iraq and Syria, and the special role of the Jordanian and Arabian monarchies. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history credit. Recommended: one of HIST 151, 249, 251.
Traces the transformation of the study of the natural world from the Greek natural philosophers to the time of Isaac Newton. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 110.
Topics in the history of science and technology to be selected from the 18th/19th century chemistry, the history of the idea of evolution and of Darwinian science, physics to 1914, or 19th century industrial science. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history or science.
Examines key social, economic, political, and intellectual developments in Ireland from the 18th to the mid-20th centuries. It will also explore shifting understandings of the 'Irish nation' and consider how communal historical memory can be appropriated to serve different political agendas. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 390 D200 in spring term 2006 (1061) may not take this course for further credit.
Examines technology from ancient tool use, through the place of invention in the development of civilization. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended. HIST 130.
Explores the social and cultural problems in modern Chinese history, with special emphasis on popular and elite cultures in the late Qing, Republican, and socialist eras. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history including HIST 255.
Analyzes the history of the PRC from 1949 to present. Special emphasis on ideology, inequality, diversity, the Great Leap Forward, Cultural Revolution, and economic reforms. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 256 may not take this course for further credit.
A writing-intensive examination of selected topics in the history of Asia, Africa and/or the Middle East. The content will vary from offering to offering. See department for further information. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students may not take selected topics within HIST 368 for further credit if duplicating content of another history course and vice versa. Writing.
This is the first term of work experience in co-operative education. It is meant to be exploratory in nature. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: normally 60 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the co-op co-ordinator one term in advance.
Covers the period in Japan from the 1930s to the 1950s and will introduce students to topics such as wartime atrocities, the dropping of the atomic bombs and the prosecution of war criminals. It will also attempt to explain why so much controversy surrounds interpretations of events arising from Japan's last war, the Asia-Pacific War. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: at least one course on modern Japan.
A broad examination of attempts by aboriginal, imperial, and mercantile forces to claim and control the North American continent from the arrival of Spanish conquistadors in the early 1500s to the surrender of Geronimo in 1886. Explores the processes of colonization from many perspectives, including Aboriginal, American, English, French, Russian, and Spanish ambitions and activities. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division History and one of HIST 101 or 212, or permission of the department. Breadth-Humanities.
A writing-intensive examination of selected topics in the history of the Americas. The content will vary from offering to offering. See department for further information. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students may not take selected topics within HIST 374 for further credit if duplicating content of another history course and vice versa. Writing.
This is the second term of the Co-operative Education Program. Building on the experience of the first employment term, this term will provide a work experience that integrates and builds on the research and writing skills associated with the discipline of history. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: normally 75 units (including HIST 370) with a minimum CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the co-op co-ordinator one term in advance.
Examines themes in the development of the western portions of North America, their incorporation into nation states, and the tensions between local, regional, and national systems during the last two centuries. Themes will include race, ethnicity, class labor, capital, and environment. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students with credit for HIST 391 in 1057 may not take this course for further credit.
Examines the reciprocal influences between humans and nature through time. Topics may include settlement, agriculture, technology, politics, urbanization, science, and conservation. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division History. The course is identical to GEOG 377 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
An examination of select topics in Christianity and globalization, with an emphasis on the early-modern period. Students will explore the connections between regions rather than individual regional histories. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history credit.
Special topics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Special topics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An advanced seminar on historical methods. Focuses on the identification and analysis of sources in preparation for writing the honours essay. Prerequisite: admission to the honors program in history.
An examination of major debates concerning the history of late-nineteenth and twentieth century Germany. Themes may include the nature of German modernity, interpretations of the Third Reich, or German memory after the Second World War. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history and one of HIST 224, 225, 332 or permission of the department. Students who have taken HIST 486 in 2002-3 or 2003-3 may not take HIST 401 for further credit.
An exploration of the history and historiography of the Renaissance Italy. Emphasis will be given to politics, religion, culture and the economy, and to a balanced study of the Italian peninsula, including Florence, Venice, Rome, Naples, the countryside and smaller urban centres. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history and one of HIST 220, 223, HUM 219, 305, 311, 312 or permission of the department.
From the world of late-medieval piety to the outbreak of the English Civil War, this research seminar examines the changing nature of religious belief in early modern England with a particular focus on the origins, development and impact of Protestantism. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history and one of HIST 223, 315, 320, 405, 439  or permission of the department.
This course will study culture in Great Britain and Europe since 1500. Themes may include the sixteenth century separation between popular and elite culture, Carnival, the witch craze, popular ballads, the institution of 'rational recreation' during the Industrial Revolution, the late Victorian Music Hall, the cultural emancipation of women, and the effects on working class culture of economic depression and world war. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 105 or 106.
This course aims to provide a basic understanding of Marx's theory of history and to introduce students to some of the important ideas used by Marxists in the writing of history. Readings for the course will include some of Marx' original work, the writings of historians who have been influenced by Marx as well as selected writings from some of Marx's critics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An examination, by means of a series of case studies, of the ways in which Britain's ambiguous relationships with Europe, the Empire/Commonwealth and the United States have shaped its identity in the twentieth century. Prerequisite: HIST 225 plus 45 units including nine units of lower division History. Recommended: HIST 337.
A study of major developments and controversies -- social, cultural, political, religious, economic -- during the period of the rise of industrial and class society. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one or more of HIST 224, 315, 316.
An analysis of the origins of the Revolution, of its changing nature, and of its impact on society. The Revolution will be examined in its European context. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 223, 224.
An examination of a principal aspect of, or period in, the history of French society since the Revolution. For example, attention may be given to the 19th century French revolutionary tradition, or to society and culture in the Third, Fourth and Fifth Republics, or to colonialism and decolonisation. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 224 or 225.
Advanced analysis of specific problems in social, intellectual, and political history of modern Russia. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 224 or 225.
An examination of how the Russian Empire grew, was maintained, and came to an end, if it did end, through a study of imperial and colonial policies and practices and the responses to these by the area's diverse peoples. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Greece and Greek society will serve as a case study of a Balkan country that underwent several political and social transformations. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Examines the cycle of violence that followed the Axis occupation of Greece and created a political schism that lasted until the 1980s. The course will focus on Greek resistance, foreign relations and relations with the British intelligence services. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Selected problems in Canadian ideas and attitudes on such topics as the arts, religion, education, minority and native cultures, nationalism, and Canadian historiography. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 101, 102.
Explores historical changes in masculinity and femininity. Using a thematic and transnational/comparative approach, it will examine how gender identities are formed and refashioned within different historical contexts. It will also explore the interaction between gender and other systems of power such as race, class, and ethnicity. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An examination of the growth and evolution of the relationship between state and society in North America. It will examine the myriad direct and indirect ways in which the state has regulated the lives of North Americans and the equally diverse ways in which North Americans have sought to influence and shape state policy. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: PHIL 120 or 220.
Examination of selected themes in the history of Aboriginal peoples Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Selected problems in the history of Canadian agriculture and industrial development, migration and settlement, labor, native policy and class structure. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 101, 102.
Social, cultural, intellectual, economic, military, and administrative aspects of New France. Prerequisite: 45 units, including six units of lower division history and either HIST 101 or 214. Recommended: HIST 102.
An investigation into the major themes and arguments in the environmental histories of North America, emphasizing how different individuals and groups have used, perceived, and managed their environments over time. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. This course is identical to GEOG 432 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
Explores the representation of modern Italian history through the medium of film. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history plus eight units of upper division history, or any one of the following courses: HIST 486 D100 (spring 2006 Italian Fascism); HIST 390 D100 (spring 2007 Modern Italy); HIST 486 D100 (spring 2008 Fascist Italy). Students who have taken HIST 486 D100 in fall 2007 (1077) may not take this course for further credit.
Selected problems in the social, cultural, economic and political development of British Columbia. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 101 and 102.
An examination of the complex history of Catholicism in Europe in the period 1500-1789. By elucidating the diversity within and among institutions and religious experiences, it will challenge the traditional assumption that Catholicism constituted a religious monolith impervious to historical change. Subjects for particular focus may include historiographical approaches to Catholicism, the papacy, the Society of Jesus, popular religion, the role of art. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history and one of HIST 220, 223, 288, or 320.
Explores the various empires (Indigenous, Spanish, French, Dutch, British) that sought dominance in North America after 1500, and discusses the usefulness of 'empire' as a way of thinking about history and power. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: at least one of HIST 208, 209, 212, 213, and 223. Students with credit for HIST 487 in 1047 may not take this course for further credit.
Traces the development of legal doctrine pertaining to Aboriginal peoples in Canada and the United States, including its shared roots in British colonial law and policy. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 485 or 486 under this topic may not take this course for further credit. HIST 443 and FNST 443 are identical and students may not take both courses for credit.
Explores the social, political, economic, cultural, and intellectual environments in which the region of Atlantic Canada has been created and re-imagined over time. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 101 or 102. Students who have taken HIST 485 D100 in fall term 2006 (1067) may not take HIST 444 for further credit.
Examines the politics, society and culture of fascism in Italy from 1922 to World War II. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 486 when offered with the title Italian Fascism or Fascist Italy (Spring 2006, Spring 2008, Fall 2008) may not take this course for further credit.
Traces the historical experience of people of Japanese ancestry in the United States and Canada. Provides a comparative, transnational treatment of the historical conditions that created the impetus for immigration; exclusionary laws; the nature of prewar immigrant communities; and internment. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students who have taken HIST 485 or 486 may not take this course for further credit.
Examines theoretical debates, ethical issues, and methodological challenges that revolve around the field of oral history. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Explores how ideas, practices and identities have changed over time in response to social, political and economic pressures. Emphasis on postmodern approaches to understanding sexuality, and the international historical scholarship it has generated. Chronological and geographical focus of this course may vary. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An examination of the role of racial thinking in the history of the Americas, from the era of the Conquest to the present day. Topics may include African and Indigenous slavery, the development of scientific racism in the 18th and 19th centuries, and the persistence of racism in the present day. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Focuses on major issues and trends in the history of the Ottoman Empire from the mid-eighteenth century to its demise in the aftermath of World War I. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 151 and 249. Students who have taken HIST 486 D200 in 1061 may not take this course for further credit.
Examines the political, social, and cultural transformation in Turkey from the end of World War I to the present. Topics may include the Ottoman legacy in the Turkish Republic, issues of nation building, national identity and ethnicity, the role of the military in Turkish politics, changing concepts of gender, the role of political Islam, and Turkish diasporas. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 151 and 249. Students with credit in HIST 486 D100 in 1057 may not take this course for further credit.
Advanced concepts and methodology applied to the study of one or more Latin American regions. Examples are: pre-Columbian and colonial Middle America; revolutionary Mexico 1910-1970, Brazil from Slavery to Militarism, frontier society to hyper-urbanism in the La Plata countries. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one of HIST 104, 208, 209, LAS 200.
Advanced concepts and methodology applied to the study of traditional and contemporary institutions (the church, the great estate, the peasantry, elite structures) and/or political movements (agrarian revolution, populism, the modernizing military). Emphasis placed on changing historiographical interpretations. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one of HIST 104, 208, 209, LAS 200.
Familiarizes the student with the main problems in the study of Byzantine social, political, economic and intellectual history. Students will be exposed to the main primary sources available to the Byzantinist and will read articles and books by the most influential scholars in the field of Byzantine studies. Prerequisite: 45 units, including 9 hours of lower division history.
A comprehensive oral history project for students who have completed HIST 451. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history and HIST 451.
Explores the creation of Northern Ireland and the conflicting understandings of the past that led to discrimination and sectarian violence in the Twentieth Century. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 362.
Concepts and methodology of modern Asian history. Selected themes may include revolution, inequality, mass violence, ideology, imperialism, leadership, and the Cold War. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
A discussion of the modern history of nation-building in the context of the Arab-Israeli conflict. The topics discussed include Zionism, the British Mandate in Palestine, the creation of the state of Israel, the rise of modern Palestinian nationalism, and the role of the Palestinian-Israeli dispute in regional and international affairs. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history and one of HIST 151, 249, 251, 350, 354, 355 or permission of the department.
An interpretive discussion of the course of modern Egyptian history. This may range from the advent to power of Muhammed Ali Pasha until recent times, or may focus on specific periods of revolutionary change. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history and one of HIST 151, 249, 251, 350, 354, 355 or permission of the department.
An advanced examination into the concepts and methodology of the history of religion. Prerequisite: 45 units, including nine units of lower division history.
Advanced analysis of specific problems in Islamic social and intellectual history, with an emphasis on traditional patterns and on their transformation in the modern world. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: one of HIST 249 or 352.
This is the third term of the Co-operative Education Program. The work experience will be focused in a specialized area of the student's choice. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: normally 90 units (including HIST 370 and 375) with a minimum CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the co-op co-ordinator one term in advance. Students entering 400 division seminars should have an appropriate background in 100 and 200 division and/or 300 division history. Normally, students should have completed 45 units (or the equivalent) prior to enrollment in any upper division history course.
The history of Japan from 1600 to the mid 20th century with a focus on the economic, social, cultural and political contributions of women. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Students with credit for HIST 485 in 2001-1 or HIST 488 in 2002-1 may not take this course for further credit.
An advanced examination into the concepts and methodology of world history. Selected themes may include globalization, modernization, migration, religious expansion, colonialism, imperialism, and the teaching of world history. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
An examination of the way in which South African society evolved  in the 19th and 20th centuries. Particular attention will be paid to the problem of race relations. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: HIST 231, 348.
This is the fourth term of the Co-operative Education Program. The work experience will require a high level of expertise in research and writing skills as well as an ability to exercise independent judgement. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: normally 105 units (including HIST 370, 375 and 470) with a minimum CGPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the co-op co-ordinator one term in advance. Students entering 400 division seminars should have an appropriate background in 100 and 200 division and/or 300 division history. Normally, students should have completed 45 units (or the equivalent) prior to enrollment in any upper division history course.
Focuses on underprivileged and disenfranchised groups -- farmers, workers, women, ethnic minorities, etc. -- and on the mechanisms of inclusion and exclusion that structure modern Chinese society. Note that the seminar covers mainly continental China. Taiwan, Hong Kong, and the Chinese diaspora will be discussed only in passing. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history, including HIST 255 or 365, or permission of the department.
Special topics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Special topics. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history.
Allows students to pursue in greater depth a particular historical problem. It will be offered either as an individual reading course or as small seminars, depending upon student and faculty interest. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: at least three upper division courses in history.
Allows students to pursue in greater depth a particular historical problem. It will be offered either as an individual reading course or as a small seminars, depending upon student and faculty interest. Admission only by consent of instructor. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units of lower division history. Recommended: at least three upper division courses in history.
An introduction to the honors program, and to the community of Simon Fraser University historians, in which students will engage in a project as a cohort. Prerequisite: admission to the honors program in history. Students who have taken HIST 305 may not take this course for further credit.
Written under the direction of an individual faculty member, the honors essay will reflect a familiarity with the events and literature of a particular area of study. Prerequisite: HIST 300 and 400. Corequisite: HIST 494.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Students will propose, revise, and present their thesis prospectus, in preparation for researching and writing their thesis.
Addresses issues relating to the history of tourism and travel and examines the major works in this new and important field of history. Most readings will focus on Britain, the United States, and Canada, but term papers may cover any part of the globe.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Examines the way cities have grown and developed since the Industrial Revolution in western and colonial contexts. Focuses on the social and cultural life of cities, theories of urbanism, and the political and economic dynamics that shape modern cities.
Examines the role of the environment in history. Environmental factors can be understood both as agents of historical change and as framework within which change takes place. Environment in this sense is a continually constructed phenomena, but also an ideal around which current debates unfold.
Examines the methods, theories, and epistemological issues associated with the practice of Oral History.
Explores the use of film in the study of the past. Films are considered both as primary documents - that is, texts produced in the moment - and as interpretive tools that are themselves engaged in a discussion of the past.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
A trans-regional study of the colonial and post-colonial condition, focusing on the ways that colonial systems of knowledge and practices persist, albeit transformed, in societies long after formal systems of rule are ended.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
An examination of the biological processes that underlie human health and well-being, with emphasis on the evolutionary and ecological influences affecting human populations. Students with credit for BISC 101 and 102 may not take HSCI 100 for further credit.
Introductory information about human sexuality across a broad spectrum of topic areas. Sexual function is a fundamental part of a full and healthy life, but misinformation, concerns, problems, and dysfunctions are prevalent. An evidence-based introduction to human sexual function and dysfunction, and normal psychosexual development across a range of sexual behaviors. A perspective on the effects of socialization on sexual attitudes and behavior. Breadth-Social Sciences.
How health, illness and disease are defined and measured for individuals and populations. Research strategies used to identify how health, illness and disease are distributed across human populations and how environmental, socio-economic, demographic, biological, behavioural and political factors influence individual and population health.
A scientific, critical, and evidence-based examination of integrative, complementary, and alternative approaches to health. Why so many people are skeptical of conventional medicine and contemporary treatment modalities. Incorporation of traditional medicines into mainstream medicine. the need to investigate, and to protect the public from fraud. The extent to which both complementary and mainstream medicine can withstand the scrutiny of an evidence-based approach. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Current issues and controversies and their impact on the sexual behaviour and well-being of individuals at different ages and circumstances. Typical topics might include sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS, sexual orientation and cultural differences in tolerance, abuses of power, and sexually explicit media. Differing perspectives and a diversity of views will be presented in a non-prescriptive manner. As a result, many of the opinions expressed in this course will be controversial.
An introduction to the differences in health and health services among the nations of the globe. Vulnerable sub-populations worldwide and their special health needs. Mechanisms whereby events in one country can impact health in another. Future worldwide health risks, their economic and health consequences. SARS, avian 'flu,' West Nile virus, 'mad cow disease,' antibiotic resistant malaria or tuberculosis. Dangers to rich and poor nations from ignoring health problems in developing world. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Substance use within societies. Licit and illicit drug pharmacology, drug effects, risk factors, opportunities for intervention, drug policies and their implementation, and populations with unique vulnerabilities or needs. Major theories of substance use and addiction. Strengths and limitations of alternative approaches to managing substance use as a component of public health in Canada and globally.
A specific topic in health sciences which is not otherwise covered in-depth in regular courses. Prerequisite: will vary according to topic. Corequisite: will vary according to topic.
An interdisciplinary overview of the major non-communicable diseases - cancers, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases - from a public health perspective. Review of biological mechanisms, risk factors, historical and cultural contexts, and global distribution. Prerequisite: HSCI 100 or BISC 101, HSCI 130.
An integrated survey of infectious diseases and their social and economic causes and consequences. Infectious agents, including bacteria, protozoa, fungi and viruses -- how they spread, how they work, and how they can be stopped. Surveillance, prevention, and management of infectious diseases and epidemics. Prerequisite: HSCI 100 or BISC 101, HSCI 130.
An interdisciplinary overview of mental health and mental illness among populations. A review of the distribution and risk factors of mental illnesses as well as the historical and cultural context of their development. Prerequisite: HSCI 100 or BISC 101, HSCI 130.
An interdisciplinary overview of injury and disability. Review of global distribution and risk factors. Examination of disability and injury across multiple levels of analysis. Prerequisite: HSCI 100 or BISC 101, HSCI 130.
Effects that social and ecological factors have on human growth, development and health. Challenges such as epidemics, natural catastrophes, industrialization, globalization, migration, poverty, war, global warming, etc, leading to evolution and adaptations. Relationships between socio-ecological challenges, their health consequences and related gene-population variations and effects on growth, development, sexual maturation, reproductive investment, and senescence and health. Prerequisite: HSCI 100 or BISC 101.
Environmental risks and the impact of human activity on health. Chemical and biological hazards. Methodological approaches to their detection, assessment, management, and mitigation. Prerequisite: two HSCI 200-level courses one of which may be taken concurrently.
A comparative analysis of the Canadian health care financing and delivery systems and policies. History, organizational principles, health care resources, costs, access to care, quality, and equity. Societal and political issues, threats and values that affect Canada's health care system and others around the world. Prerequisite:    60 units, including nine HSCI units.
A study of micro- and macro-economic concepts used in the pursuit of better health and health care. Choices within limited resources, economic evaluation of efficiency, equity, elasticity of health systems, policy and regulatory issues. Prerequisite: two HSCI 200-level courses one of which may be taken concurrently.
Principles and applications in health sciences research methodology. Quantitative and qualitative methods. Research process and design. Appropriate approaches for diverse research questions. Research ethics, sources of data, sampling, measurement, data collection, initial data analysis techniques. Prerequisite:    two HSCI 200 division courses, one of which may be taken concurrently.
New formations of wealth and power that contribute to international health disparities and consideration of the relations of power both between and within nation-states that make some people sick and keep others well. Economic and political collusions that make people sick. Infectious disease and child survival, health implications of war, biotech, and the politics of food and water. Prerequisite: 45 units. Recommended: HSCI 130.
Relationships between the physical environment in which people live and their health and well being. How the built environment affects physical activity, obesity, exposure to pathogens and toxins, health status, mental health, and risk of illness and injury. How urban form, physical infrastructure, and landscape and building design can promote health. Prerequisite:    60 units including one HSCI course.  Students with credit for HSCI 403 may not complete this course for credit
Theoretical frameworks and their applications in health promotion and disease prevention. The development, implementation, and evaluation of programs aimed at individuals and communities in Canada and globally. Prerequisite: 60 units, including either HSCI 130 or KIN 140. Students who have completed HSCI 401 prior to fall 2010 may not receive credit for this course.
Practical ethical and legal issues in health sciences, emphasizing population and public health. Case studies approach highlighting current ethical dilemmas and decision-making in the context of global to local legal frameworks. Prerequisite:    45 units including nine HSCI units, one of which must be a 200 division course.  HSCI 319 is identical to PHIL 319 and students cannot receive credit for both courses. Writing.
Molecular, cellular and systemic approach to examine topics in human pathophysiology. Prerequisite: MBB 231, or permission of the instructor.
Biological, molecular and biochemical actions of drugs and toxicants. Genetic and environmental risk determinants. Understanding the broad spectrum of toxicological problems encountered in clinical practice, drug development and regulation, and medical research. Prerequisite: MBB 231, CHEM 282.
Human variation and human health in the context of population genetics, epidemiology, demography, and human evolution. Prerequisite: BISC 202.
Ethical issues related to public health as they are located in and influenced by a global context. Consideration of several ethical approaches including utilitarianism, deontic ethics, and the capabilities approach, as well as theories of justice. Application of approaches to topics ranging from global markets in human organs to international migration of health workers and pharmaceutical testing in the Developing World. Prerequisite:    60 units of completed course work and PHIL 120 or HSCI 319W.  Students who have completed HSCI 319 or 320 may not take this course for further credit
Competing understandings of the moral wrong of exploitation. Application to practices and relationships that are the focus of concern over exploitation in the context of public and population health. Prerequisite: PHIL 120W or HSCI 319W or PHIL 319W, or permission from the instructor.
The concepts and measurements of human population dynamics in epidemiological inference. Identification of causes and prevalence of disease. Demographic and molecular methodology to assess the determinants of health and disease. Prerequisite:    nine HSCI units including one HSCI 200 division course and either STAT 302 or 305 which may be taken concurrently.
Social determinants of health and health inequities. Explores how and why the social advantages and disadvantages that people experience - based on their social position(s) and social circumstances - determine their health status and overall well-being. Prerequisite: 60 units and two HSCI 200-level courses, one of which may be taken concurrently.
First term of work experience in the Health Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Work terms are graded as Pass/Fail. Prerequisite: students must be accepted into the Health Sciences Co-op program and complete Bridging Online.
Second term of work experience in the Health Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Work terms are graded as Pass/Fail. Prerequisite: completion of HSCI 350 Co-op Practicum I.
A specific topic in health sciences which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. Prerequisite/Corequisite: will vary according to topic.
A specific topic in health sciences which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. Prerequisite/Corequisite: will vary according to topic.
A specific topic in health sciences which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. Prerequisite/Corequisite: will vary according to topic.
A specific topic in health sciences which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. Prerequisite/Corequisite: will vary according to topic.
Theoretical frameworks and their applications in health promotion and disease prevention. The development, implementation, and evaluation of programs aimed at individuals and communities in Canada and globally. Prerequisite: 60 units, including either HSCI 130 or KIN 140. Students who have completed HSCI 401 prior to fall 2010 may not receive credit for this course.
Substance use and addiction within the context of public health. Determinants of substance abuse and dependence; varieties of substances and their associated health implication; compulsive and addictive behaviors; treatment approaches and their effectiveness for populations and groups; models of prevention; life-cycle and developmental considerations; identified populations; policies for prevention and control. Prerequisite: HSCI 214.
Major public policy issues affecting Canadian and international health care systems. How the public policy process affects financing, delivery, and regulation of health programs and services. Theories of policy development in the health sector. Evaluation of the extent to which evidence influences policy decisions. Controversies, including: finance, regulatory issue, system restructuring, models of governance, public vs. private service delivery and resource allocation. Prerequisite:    60 units including one HSCI course.
Examination of the health and health problems of Indigenous peoples from a global perspective. Comparative study of social and historical factors affecting Indigenous peoples that contribute to health conditions and health status. Efforts of Indigenous peoples to restore health to their Nations. Prerequisite:    60 units including one HSCI course.
A review of the impact of international trade agreements in shaping health policy in Canada as well as in other developed and developing countries. The impact of trade obligations in key health policy areas, including: the provision of health services, health insurance, intellectual property, pharmaceutical policy, bio-technology, the accreditation of health professionals and the ability of governments to regulate developments in the health care sector. Prerequisite:    at least 60 units in health sciences including HSCI 130, 305 and at least one other upper division HSCI course.
Origins and evolution of public health. Transitions in public and population health, focusing on changing concepts and interventions in public health, such as the sanitarian movement, the rise of bacteriology and vaccines, nutritional deficiencies, chronic diseases, occupational health, maternal and child health, and environmental health. Prerequisite:    HSCI majors with 90 units including HSCI 330.
Regression and data analysis techniques for health research. Practical approaches to linear and logistic regression, multivariable modelling, interaction, variable selection, confounding, and measures of association. Computer-based laboratory exercises using statistical software applied to health datasets. Prerequisite: STAT 302. Recommended: HSCI 330.
Theory and strategies for health communication in health systems and in particular cultural contexts. Interpersonal communication in health care, the relationship between belief and the construction of clinical realities, and communication for promoting public health. Social marketing and other strategies for health promotion targeting communities and persons of diverse cultural backgrounds. Communication about environmental and health risks. Prerequisite: HSCI 312 and two HSCI 200-level courses. Students who have taken HSCI 301 may not take this course for further credit.
The use of mapping strategies and geographic information systems in identifying disease patterns and health risks. The relation of health problems to the distribution of markers of exposure, susceptibility, and health impact, and resulting risk management strategies for intervention, mitigation, and disease prevention. Prerequisite: 60 units and two HSCI 200-level courses, or permission of instructor. Recommended: GEOG 255, CMPT 100.
The basic organization of the immune system, including structure, function and genetics of antibodies, T-cell receptors, innate immune receptors, and the complement system. Innate, antibody and cellular immune responses and their control, and development of the cells involved in these responses. Prerequisite: MBB 331. HSCI 426 is identical to MBB 426 and HSCI 325 and students cannot take MBB 426 for further credit.
The immunologic response to bacterial, viral and parasitic infections, immunological diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiency, hypersensitivity reactions (including asthma and allergy) and transplantation-rejection reactions. Immunotherapeutics and vaccine development. Prerequisite: HSCI 426 or MBB 426 or permission of the instructor. HSCI 427 is identical to MBB 427 and HSCI 425 and students cannot take HSCI 427 for further credit.
A multidisciplinary and international focus on the transmission, impact, prevention, and human aspects of the global HIV/AIDS epidemic. Prerequisite:    60 units including either HSCI 212 or 330.
Tools for the surveillance, prevention, and control of infectious diseases and their application in public health programs. Prerequisite: HSCI 212, 330.
Animal virology in the context of viral diseases in humans and animals. Animal viruses, their replication, virus-host interactions and viral diseases. Prerequisite: MBB 331 and BISC 303, or permission of the instructor.
Mechanisms underlying viral infectious diseases in humans and animals at the levels of the molecule, cell, organ and the individual. Virus spread in a host, host responses to the viral infection, and virus-host interactions that result in disease. Prerequisite: HSCI 321, 438, or permission of the instructor.
A review of pathophysiological mechanisms of disease with an emphasis on the molecular, cellular and genetic bases of pathology. Laboratory includes cell-biology experiments, histological preparations, and microscopic examination of normal and diseased tissues. Prerequisite: MBB 308 and HSCI 321, or permission from instructor.
Study, in a laboratory environment, of viruses as infectious agents that threaten human health and viral associated cancer as well as their use in gene therapy. Includes cell culture methods, virus isolation and quantifitation, virus purification, etc. Prerequisite: HSCI 438, MBB 308.
Laboratory methods in immunology. Focus on the vertebrate immune system and the molecular and cellular principles underlying immune recognition. Experimental methods designed to combine serology, biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology and genetics as a basis for understanding immunological aspects of health and disease. Prerequisite: HSCI or MBB 426, MBB 308.
The scientific principles underlying the toxic actions of various substances important to human health. The chemical nature of toxic substances, their mode of action, uptake and metabolism. Analytical techniques for analyzing samples of toxicological importance in the work and general environment and short-term assays used in risk assessment will be introduced. Prerequisite: HSCI 323, MBB 308.
Multi-week service learning project with a community-based partner organization or school arranged each semester. Related class work addresses community partnerships, health promotion, reciprocity, local control, sustainability, participatory research, and skills. Prerequisite:    90 units including HSCI 312 and 319 or 327.  Students with credit for HSCI 349 may not complete this course for credit
Third term of work experience in the Health Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Work terms are graded as Pass/Fail. Prerequisite: completion of HSCI 351 Co-op Practicum II.
Fourth term of work experience in the Health Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Work terms are graded as Pass/Fail. Prerequisite: completion of HSCI 450 Co-op Practicum III.
Fifth term of work experience in the Health Sciences Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Work terms are graded as Pass/Fail. Prerequisite: completion of HSCI 451 Co-op Practicum IV.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings. Prerequisite: will vary according to topic.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings. Prerequisite: will vary according to topic.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings. Prerequisite: will vary according to topic.
Mechanisms of drug action in the brain, including several classes of drugs and neurotransmitter systems that are involved in mental health disorders, drug addiction and neurodegeneration. Prerequisite: HSCI 323 and HSCI 321 or MBB 331.
Discussion of novel and advanced topics in chemical covalent modifications of chromatin that influence gene regulation. Prerequisite: MBB 331, or permission of the instructor.
Current topics in molecular biology-based research into pathologies of disease related to drug and environmental exposures. Focus on systems pharmacology and the molecular determinants of drug and toxicant action as they relate to gene expression and signal transduction. Prerequisite: HSCI 323 and MBB 331, or permission of the instructor.
Immunological concepts of vaccines and vaccinology including vaccination, correlates of immune protection, humoral and mucosal immunity, adjuvants, recombinant vaccine technology, 'designer' vaccines, and HIV/AIDS vaccine design as a paradigm for modern vaccinology. Prerequisite: BISC 303 and HSCI 426 or MBB 426, or permission of the instructor. Recommended: HSCI 427 or MBB 427.
Application of modern molecular methods to epidemiological questions. Globally-relevant and emerging infectious diseases will be highlighted. Prerequisite: HSCI 330 and MBB 331. Students with credit for HSCI 432 in 2010 may not complete HSCI 478 for further credit.
Molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of aging-related neurodegenerative diseases, and translational, bench-to-bedside, research topics related to therapeutic strategies and outcomes. Prerequisite: MBB 331 and HSCI 321.
An in-depth overview of the sociocultural, epidemiological, and policy aspects of population and public health. Prerequisite: HSCI majors with 90 units, including at least 15 upper division HSCI units. Other prerequisites may vary according to topic.
An in-depth overview of newly emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases in the context of disease prevention, surveillance and control. Prerequisite: HSCI majors with 90 units, including HSCI 426 (or MBB 426) and HSCI 438, or permission from the instructor.
An in-depth overview of environmental health, environmental risks and human activity in relation to environmental health in the context of disease prevention, surveillance and control. Prerequisite: HSCI 304 and HSCI 330 and 84 units, and declared HSCI major.
Scientific research in population health. Developing and evaluating research protocols, taking a general research question and turning it into an analysis plan, carrying out the analysis, and writing up the findings for presentation and publication. Prerequisite: HSCI majors with 90 units, including HSCI 330 and STAT 302, or permission from instructor.
Treatment of current issues in mental health and addictions from a population and public health perspective. Students will examine several topics from theoretical, methodological and policy perspectives. Prerequisite: HSCI majors with 90 units, including at least 15 upper division HSCI units. Other prerequisites may vary according to topic.
Treatment of current global health issues. Students will examine several topics from theoretical, methodological and policy perspectives. Prerequisite: HSCI majors with 90 units, including at least 15 upper division HSCI units. Other prerequisites may vary according to topic.
Independent studies on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. A student will be permitted to enroll in this course only if she or he obtains the prior written agreement of a professor who will act as research supervisor.
Independent research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. A student will be permitted to enrol in this course only if she or he obtains the prior written agreement of a professor who will act as research supervisor.
Research proposal for the honors thesis. HSCI 490, 491 and 492 together form the honors thesis. Limited to honors students upon written agreement of the faculty supervisor.
Research for the honors thesis. HSCI 490, 491 and 492 together form the honors thesis. Limited to honors students upon written agreement of the faculty supervisor. Prerequisite/corequisite: HSCI 490. Students with credit for HSCI 493 or HSCI 494 may not take HSCI 491 for further credit.
Independent honors research thesis. HSCI 490, 491 and 492 together form the honors thesis. Limited to honors students upon written agreement of the faculty supervisor. Prerequisite or corequisite: HSCI 491.
Independent research for the honors thesis. Three courses, HSCI 490, HSCI 492, and either 491, HSCI 493, or HSCI 494, together form the coursework for the honors thesis. This 6-credit option is for students who will devote about half time to their research during the semester. Limited to honors students upon written agreement of the faculty supervisor.  Prerequisite: HSCI 490. Cannot get credit for HSCI 491 or HSCI 494.
Independent laboratory-based research for the honors thesis. Three courses, HSCI 490, HSCI 492, and either 491, HSCI 493, or HSCI 494, together form the coursework for the honors thesis. This 9-credit option is for students whose research requires close to full-time work in the laboratory during the semester. Limited to honors students upon written agreement of the faculty supervisor. Prerequisite: HSCI 490. Cannot get credit for HSCI 491 or HSCI 493.
A specific topic in health sciences which is not otherwise covered in depth in regular courses. Prerequisite/Corequisite: will vary according to topic.
Mechanisms of drug action in the brain, including several classes of drugs and neurotransmitter systems that are involved in mental health disorders, drug addiction and neurodegeneration. Prerequisite: HSCI 323, MBB 331, or permission of the instructor.
Discussion of novel and advanced topics in chemical covalent modifications of chromatin that influence gene regulation. Prerequisite: MBB 331 or permission from the instructor.
Topics in molecular biology-based research into pathologies of disease related to drug and environmental exposures will be discussed. Focus on systems pharmacology and the molecular determinants of drug and toxicant action as they relate to gene expression and signal transduction. Prerequisite: HSCI 323, MBB 331, or permission of the instructor.
Exposes current immunological concepts of vaccines and vaccinology including vaccination, correlates of immune protection, humoral and mucosal immunity, adjuvants, recombinant vaccine technology, 'designer' vaccines, and HIV/AIDS vaccine design as a paradigm for modern vaccinology. Current literature in these areas will be reviewed intensely. Prerequisite: BISC 303, MBB 426, or permission from the instructor.
Application of modern molecular methods to epidemiological questions. Globally-relevant and emerging infectious diseases will be highlighted. The course will emphasize critical review of the current literature in the field. Prerequisite: BISC 303, 330, MBB 331, or permission from the instructor.
Introduction to the practice of statistics with examples from health sciences literatures. Emphasizes statistical thinking and basic statistical concepts. Coverage includes basic descriptive statistics, elementary probability concepts, probability and sampling models, exploratory data analysis for univariate and bivariate data, one sample and two sample tests for means and proportions. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor. Students who have taken HSCI 800 Special Topics 'Introduction to Biostatistics' cannot take this course for credit.
Basic statistical concepts as applied to diverse problems in epidemiologic and public health research. Emphasizes interpretation and concepts rather than calculations. Basic study designs' statistics. Descriptive and graphical methods, fundamentals of probability distribution, rates and standardization, contingency tables, odds ratios, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, life tables, Linear regression. Prerequisite: an undergraduate course in statistics or completion of HSCI 800.
The underlying concepts and methods of epidemiology in the context of population and public health. Study designs (clinical trials, cohort studies, case-control studies, and cross-sectional), measures of disease frequency and effect, validity and precision, confounding and effect modification, analysis of two-by-two tables, and options for control. Students will acquire skills in the critical interpretation of the epidemiologic literature, methodology of estimating measures of disease frequency and effect and common measures of potential impact; evaluation of study design; analysis of bias and confounding; and options for control of extraneous factors. HSCI 801 may be taken concurrently.
Methodologies and strategic research design for advances in knowledge and understanding in the health sciences. Problem definition, sampling, data collection, analysis, proposal writing, and ethical issues are addressed. Provides experiential and intellectual grounding in surveys, interviews, focus groups, and ethnography. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Statistical methods related to public health. Probability distributions, basic statistical inference on means and proportions and general concepts of hypothesis testing. Measures of association. Simple and multivariable linear regression models, dummy variables, and logistic regression models. Survival data analysis. Prerequisite: HSCI 801.
Follow-up course to HSCI 802. Designing, conducting, analyzing, and interpreting epidemiologic research. Theoretical frameworks, concepts of inference, measures of disease occurrence and effect, study designs, issues in measurement, bias, confounding, and interaction. Critical assessment of the epidemiologic and public health literature. Prerequisite: HSCI 801 and 802.
This seminar course is designed to introduce students to demographic techniques and principles through the discussion of the applications of various measures, case studies, and software programs. The emphasis is on applying techniques and principles learned in class to undertake demographic analyses in the lab. Prerequisite: HSCI 801.
Critical examination of methodologies and methods for research on health inequities related to class, race, ethnicity, gender and other social axes of marginalization and power. Covers a range of disciplines (epidemiology, social sciences), methodologies (positivist, critical, feminist, indigenous) and methods (qualitative, quantitative, action-oriented). Emphasis on causes of and solutions to systemic health inequities. Prerequisite: HSCI 802 and 803, or permission of instructor.
Introduction to population health paradigms and the history of public health. Understanding the factors that influence health over the lifespan. Fundamentals of public health strategies including health promotion, public policy, disease prevention, communication in health, behavior change, and program planning and evaluation. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the Instructor.
Problem-focused introduction to global health. Critical appraisal of current global health problems in the context of processes of globalization. Understanding and addressing health inequities, within and between countries. A case approach. Graded. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
The mechanisms by which globalization impacts health. Roles of technologies, politics, economics, legal structures, culture, and social environments. The positive and negative impacts of global trends in trade, ideology, governance, community building, conflict, poverty, and the environment. A case studies approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Central role played by gender in health and development. Relationship of gender inequities to access to and control of resources needed to protect health. Use of gender lens in evaluating health systems and economic outcomes. Practical application of gender in health development approach to health financing, resource allocation policy problems in resource-constrained nations. A case studies approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Concepts of health, illness, sickness and disease. History and development of health systems, and comparison of the social ethics, organization, and financing of different national health systems. The design of health systems - strengths and weaknesses of alternative systems for health care and delivery. Current strategies for health system reform in resource-rich and resource-constrained nations. A case studies approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Health advocacy, the policy framework within which it operates, its key principles, skills, and practice issues. Role, theories, and methods of health communication and advocacy in global health from the community to global level. Useful means: media advocacy, community mobilization, and trans-national collaboration. Use of information technology to promote population health and pro-health policy change. A case studies approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Practical approaches to health needs assessment, needs prioritization, health program planning, and health program evaluation in low-to-middle income countries and/or resource-poor settings. Gender-based analyses are emphasized throughout. A case study approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Components of health care systems, issues, and interactions between components. System outputs, medical services and the delivery of primary health care. The Canadian health system and alternatives that impact it or provide better models for delivery. Effecting change, policy development, health system design; criteria for evaluating alternatives. Comparison of different measures of health status; trend analysis for predicting future health care and funding. Components of expenditure. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Global health issues which are fundamental to human security, but outside the scope of international security studies. Focus on vulnerable populations, especially gender perspectives on globalization and health. Conflict, humanitarian emergencies and public health. A case studies approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
A case-study based approach to policy analysis, formation, decision-making and evaluation in global health contexts. Frameworks for developing policy. Program planning and evaluation methodologies. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Population health promotion and disease prevention theories, frameworks, and techniques for planning, implementing and evaluating policy and programs in resource-constrained countries. Building collaborations and participatory community-based approaches. Addressing change at the individual, organizational, community, population, and global level. A case studies approach. Graded. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of instructor.
Examination of the major social and behavioral variables -- social class, poverty, income distribution, gender, race, social networks/support, psychological stress, community cohesion, and the work and neighborhood environment -- that affect the public's health. Evaluation of the empirical research linking each construct to population health status. Methods are introduced to operationalize each construct for the purposes of application in public health research. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Critical analysis of theories and frameworks central to research and practice on health inequities. Emphasis on mechanisms through which gender, race, ethnicity, social class and other social axes of marginalization and power intersect to influence health outcomes at the population level. Prerequisite: HSCI 835 or permission of instructor.
Critical application of theory and research on social inequities and health to the development of interventions, programs and policies for reducing health inequities at the population level. Emphasis on critical, collaborative, evidence-based, reflexive public health practice. Prerequisite: HSCI 807, 838, or permission of the instructor.
Globalization and industrialization impacts on the health of the environment, populations, and workers. Environmental hazards in consumables (food, air, and water) and waste (liquid, solid, and gaseous) with special reference to hazardous waste. Risk assessment in community, workplace, and residential settings. A case studies approach. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Assessment and analysis of exposure to physical, chemical, and biological contaminants in environmental and occupational settings. Theory and methods of assessing exposure through direct and indirect methods. Introduction to statistical and modeling techniques used in interpreting exposure data, describing sources of exposure variability, and identifying important determinants of exposure. Prerequisite: HSCI 845 or permission of the instructor.
Concepts and tools involved in human health risk assessment, with a particular emphasis on those aspects relevant to occupational and environmental exposures. The main steps involved in a risk assessment and application to basic risk/exposure situations. Identify the strengths and weaknesses of different approaches. Risk management and the policy process. Prerequisite: HSCI 802 or permission of the instructor.
Provides students with an understanding of basic principles in toxicology and gives them an appreciation for the experimental efforts to address the physiologies and factors underlying morbidity and mortality in response to toxic insults. Material selected will highlight different biological systems that are sensitive to common environmental pollutants and the role that genes play in toxicant response. Prerequisite: HSCI 845 or permission of the instructor.
Epidemiological studies of environmental and workplace exposures. Critical evaluation of epidemiological studies of environmental and occupational exposures. Prerequisite: HSCI 802, 845 or permission of the instructor.
Basic air pollution concepts. Exploring the evidence of links between air pollution and adverse human health effects, including both mortality and morbidity. Air quality management at the international, national, and local levels. Focus includes airborne particles, traffic-generated pollution and indoor biomass burning. Prerequisite: HSCI 845 or permission of the instructor.
Workplace hazards will be examined in a cross section of industries, including their associated disabilities and costs, both to workers and the broader society and economy. Students will gain basic scientific knowledge required to identify and analyze the most prevalent occupational health and safety hazards, and will be able to evaluate and design safer workplaces. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Infectious and chronic disease prevention and control strategies and program implementation. Components of disease prevention and control programs, including surveillance, epidemic preparedness, immunization, outbreak response. How they apply to specific diseases. A global perspective, including low and middle income countries. Case studies. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Student presentations from the primary literature and from students' original research. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Infectious pathogens (viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, helminths), their life cycle including vectors of transmission, the biological mechanisms by which they establish infection and cause disease. Pathogenic and protective aspects of the human response to infection; roles of vaccines and chemotherapy. Impact of environmental, ecological and social/behavioral factors on the host-pathogen relationship. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Identifying a range of alternatives as most appropriate and feasible for controlling infectious diseases, and solutions to increase the infectious diseases prevention and treatment agenda in public health, clinical policy and practice at a global level. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program, or permission of the instructor.
Intersection of international affairs and global health. Pressing global health issues are analyzed as they intersect with the global economy, international development, and security. Prerequisite: HSCI 822, or permission of the instructor.
Students participate in a workplace practicum to obtain experience in community public health practices. Practica are the equivalent of full-time course work, and may focus on local, regional, national or international health practices. Following completion of the practicum, students are expected to be on campus to prepare a poster presentation summarizing their practicum experience. Graded complete or incomplete. Prerequisite: students will consult with their senior supervisor on all courses that must be taken before going on practicum. All students are expected to complete at minimum the following courses: HSCI 801, 802, 803, 901. Under special circumstances students may request written permission from the director, public health practice, and the senior supervisor to substitute one of the prerequisite courses, or to carry out the practicum prior to completion of the required courses.
No description available
Explores topics, current and emerging, in infectious diseases. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program, or permission of the instructor.
Special topics in areas not currently covered within the graduate program offerings. Prerequisites: depending on the special topic offered.
Special topics in areas not currently covered within the graduate program offerings. Prerequisite will depend on the special topic offered.
Special topics in areas not currently covered within the graduate program offerings. Prerequisite will depend on the special topic offered.
No description available
No description available
Master's Project in progress. Prerequisite: HSCI 897.
Master's Thesis in progress. Registration in this course is equivalent to full time course work. Prerequisite: HSCI 898.
Graded incomplete/complete. Prerequisite: HSCI 880.
Graded incomplete/complete.
Weekly seminars will consist of presentations by faculty, visiting scholars and students followed by discussion. Seminars will provide students with research that informs evidence based practice, and prepares students for practicums. This is a required course for all graduate students, and normally is taken in the fall term. Graded satisfactory/unsatisfactory. Prerequisite: admission to a graduate program or permission of the instructor.
Seminars, workshops and lectures designed to develop skills for public health practice. Includes the practicum planning process. Normally students complete this course in the fall and spring term of their first year. It must be completed prior to the practicum. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program or permission of the instructor.
An introduction to issues and concepts central to the study of the Humanities. Through exposure to primary materials drawn from different periods and disciplines, students will become acquainted with a range of topics and ideas relating to the study of human values and human experience. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to the central myths of the Greeks and Romans. The course will investigate the nature, function, and meaning of myths in the classical world and their considerable influence on western civilization. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
The book as we know it did not always exist; it was invented. This course will explore the creation and spread of writing, the emergence of scribal cultures, and the birth of the book, which came to be the greatest of all material, cultural and intellectual objects, one that shaped and transformed civilization. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of some of the most important features of western civilization from its origins until the mid-16th century. Prerequisite: students who have taken HIST 105 prior to 2007 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to concepts central to the academic study of religion exploring various relevant methodologies. Provides a framework for understanding the many ways in which humans experience the phenomenon of the sacred through symbol, ritual, doctrine and experience in a variety of religious traditions and cultures. Students who have taken HUM 230 prior to 2007 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to the Latin language.
An intensive study of some of the major works which have had a formative influence on the structure and development of western thought. Reading and discussion of primary texts and the major themes which emerge from them will introduce students to essential philosophical, literary, social, and religious themes of western civilization. Texts for this course will be drawn from the Ancient World, Middle Ages and the Renaissance. Prerequisite: 30 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An intensive study of some of the major works which have had a formative influence on the structure and development of western thought. Reading and discussion of primary texts and the major themes which emerge from them will introduce students to essential philosophical, literary, social and religious themes of western civilization. Texts for this course will be drawn from the 17th century through to the modern period. Prerequisite: 30 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to classic texts which have endured as monuments of Asian thought and literature. Readings and discussions of primary texts and their central ideas will introduce students to philosophical, literary and religious themes in a selected, major Asian tradition. Prerequisite: 30 units. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of some of the key works which have had a formative influence on major religious traditions. Primary texts will be selected to illustrate core elements in the religious understanding of human life and its relationship to the sacred. Prerequisite: 30 units. HUM 130 (HUM 230 prior to 2007) is recommended.
An interdisciplinary introduction to the art and literature of the Italian Renaissance (c. 1300-c. 1500). Studies the major developments in Renaissance Italian painting, sculpture and architecture alongside some of the most influential texts of the period. Prerequisite: 30 units.
Aspects of the ancient history and culture of the Near East, Greece and Rome. Recommended: HUM 105 (formerly HIST 105 prior to 2007). Students who have taken HIST 216 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
An examination of Eastern and Western Christendom from Late Antiquity to the 12th-Century Renaissance emphasizing religious, political, cultural, and social change. Students who have taken HIST 219 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
A thematic approach to European culture through the examination of a selection from historical, literary, philosophical and/or aesthetic materials. Prerequisite: 30 units.
The study of Athenian society in the 5th century BC, a period unique in the record of human achievement during which virtually all the major humanistic fields were either initiated or received significant new impetus. Prerequisite: 45 units. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Studies in the writings of various Latin authors. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
A detailed interdisciplinary analysis of a selected topic, issue, or personality in the Middle Ages. Prerequisite: 45 units.
A focused interdisciplinary study of the Carolingian civilization achieved in early medieval Europe under Charlemagne and his family. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An interdisciplinary study of literary texts in translation and/or art forms across cultures and periods. Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken this topic under HUM 381 or 382 may not take this course for further credit.
A study of the major writings, cultural milieu, and influence of the humanist movement of the Italian Renaissance. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
A detailed interdisciplinary analysis of a selected topic, issue, or personality from the Italian and/or Northern Renaissance. Prerequisite: 45 units. Writing.
An exploration of the characteristic ways in which the humanities, with its emphasis on expression, belief and tradition, presents the important philosophical concepts of western civilization. Based upon an interdisciplinary selection of texts drawn from history, philosophy, literature and the arts. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of the counter-traditions within western civilization. Compares and contrasts diverse traditions within western culture that critique its central value systems. It will focus on the attempts of great artists and thinkers to break with tradition, and the subsequent creation of new ideas and forms of experience and expression. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
A study of selected themes from debates in and about the humanities in Canada. Based upon a selection of texts from philosophy, literature, the arts, politics and/or the social sciences. Prerequisite: 45 units.
A study of the humanistic, scientific, political, and ideological discourses deriving from concern with the natural environment. Using classic and contemporary sources, this course examines the interaction of humans with the non-human world, and includes such topics as human communities and nature, the immersion of the individual in nature, nature and the human habitat. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An in-depth investigation of a specific case of religious history and tradition. Religion will be studied through the cultural and historical contexts that pervade and structure religious meaning and expression. Prerequisite: 45 units. Breadth-Humanities.
Studies the history and traditions of specific Asian religions through the cultural and historical contexts that structure religious meaning. Prerequisite: 45 units.
A detailed interdisciplinary study of the role of mythology within a particular culture or tradition. Prerequisite: 45 units. Recommended: HUM 102.
An exploration of the cultural and intellectual accomplishments of a specific city that achieved prominence in a particular time period, and had substantial impact and influence on human civilization. Examines the political, social, religious, and cultural factors that help to explain a city's significance and investigates the achievements of its citizens. Prerequisite: 45 units.
An interdisciplinary study of the life and works of a man or woman who has made a lasting contribution to the humanistic tradition in more than one field of endeavor (e.g. philosophy, politics, literature, economics, religion). Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken this topic under another Humanities course number cannot take this course for further credit.
An interdisciplinary study of a selected theme that has made a lasting contribution to the humanistic tradition in more than one field of endeavour (e.g. philosophy, politics, literature, economics, religion). Prerequisite: 45 units. Students who have taken a course with this content under another Humanities course may not take this course for further credit.
A special topic in the humanities to be offered by the Woodsworth chair. Prerequisite: 45 units.
Prerequisite: 45 units.
Prerequisite: 45 units.
An interdisciplinary approach to a topic focusing on European thought and culture.  Prerequisite: 45 units.
Prerequisite: two of any 300 division humanities courses or permission of the chair plus permission of instructor. This course may be used only once for credit towards a degree and is reserved for Humanities Major, Joint Major, Extended Minor, Minor and PBD students.
A detailed interdisciplinary analysis of a selected topic, issue, or personality in the pre-modern world. Prerequisite: 45 units, including HUM 101. Students who have completed this topic in HUM 301, 382, or 383 cannot complete this course for further credit.
Focuses on the role and practice of cultural critique in the humanities based upon a selection of materials and analytical texts across disciplines. Prerequisite: 45 units.
First term of work experience in the Humanities Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Co-op Education co-ordinator one term in advance. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: a minimum of 30 units with nine units in Humanities courses and a minimum CGPA of 2.75
Second term of work experience in the Humanities Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Co-op Education co-ordinator one term in advance. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of HUM 471, a minimum of 45 units with nine units in Humanities courses plus a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Third term of work experience in the Humanities Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Co-op Education co-ordinator one term in advance. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of HUM 472, a minimum of 60 units with nine units in Humanities courses plus a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Fourth term of work experience in the Humanities Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Co-op Education co-ordinator one term in advance. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of HUM 473, a minimum of 75 units with nine units in Humanities courses plus a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Prerequisite: 45 units, including HUM 101.
A graduating course required for students in the honors program (but open to majors and joint majors with permission of the department). The seminar focuses on issues and texts in the humanities. Topics to be addressed vary according to faculty interest and student need. Prerequisite: Students should have completed all of their lower division requirements, and at least two 300-division humanities courses. Restricted to honors students and, with department approval, to majors and joint majors in humanities. Students who completed HUM 400 may not complete this course for further credit.
A research and writing project culminating in the completion of a substantial essay on a humanities topic. Students are required to make a formal presentation and defence of their essay. Prerequisite: This course is restricted to students in the honors program. Students should have completed all of the lower division requirements for the honors program, and at least two 300-division humanities courses. Before registering for the course, students should have the signature of a faculty member who is willing to supervise their project. Approval of the humanities chair is also required. Students may complete this course concurrently with HUM 490 or upon completion of HUM 490.
Textual interpretation in the Humanities within the context of interdisciplinary approaches and the five thematic modules: classical and medieval thought and culture, modernity and its discontents, religion and culture, cross-cultural translation, humanities and citizenship.
Articulation and refinement of research agendas and prospectus and thesis through faculty guidance and group work.
Focuses on one of five following thematic modules: classical and medieval thought and culture, modernity and its discontents, religion and culture, cross-cultural translation, humanities and citizenship.
No description available
No description available
An in-depth study of a theme or aspect in the Humanities; topics will vary from offering to offering in order to meet the needs of the graduate cohort.
This is a project-based course that introduces the theory and hands-on practice of art and design in digital media. As the introductory course in IAT, this course teaches the core fundamental principles in 2D visual design, sequential and animation design. Students learn the fundamentals of digital photography and vector image creation. The theory is contextualized in contemporary new media design practice and is broadly applicable across disciplines.   Students with credit for TECH 117, 118, 119 and 120 may not complete this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
Introduction to fundamental design principles for visual communication. Organized as a continual interplay of theory and practice, students will examine historical, philosophical, perceptual and semiotic approaches to understanding graphic design, and will explore principles of form, such as structure and composition, hierarchy, form, color, space, scale, typography, and legibility and readability through hands-on projects. Traditional time-based and interactive media forms will be compared and contrasted.
Teaches essential skills for negotiating first-year course work successfully. Covers the principles, practice and understanding of effective communication, research, critical thinking, and teamwork with a focus on issues central to the practice of IAT as a profession. Presents opportunities to practice and develop interpersonal skills and make that expertise transferable to the workplace.   Students who have completed TECH 101W may not complete this course for further credit. Writing.
Introduces the world of 3D thinking, representation and communication, with a focus on spatial thinking. Provides the foundational skills and knowledge needed to understand, create, and use computer-generated 3D representations. Covers the technical bases of representing 3D environments, as well as cognitive science theories of visual thinking.   Students with credit for TECH 106 may not complete this course for further credit.
Introduces topics in human perception, cognition and embodied action as a foundation of design for human use. It explores the practical application of techniques for analyzing diverse interactive situations and designing effective user interfaces. Students will engage in the analysis and design of a simple user interface, gaining detailed knowledge and experience with the standard basic techniques for interface specification, prototyping and evaluation. Prerequisite: completion of 24 units, including at least one lower division "W" course.
Explores the computational nature of technology as applied to contemporary art and design. It is a studio-based, media production course that explores new forms of art and design that are mediated by or modeled after computing processes as opposed to transforming or digitizing existing forms. Prerequisite: IAT 100 and a minimum of 15 units.
Introduction to programming techniques for new media artists and designers using a visual dataflow language suitable for the rapid prototyping of expressive media systems. Programming techniques are explored within the task environment for music, speech, animation, cinema and their performance. An approach to the performative aspects of programmed media is developed through a series of composition and design projects in software across media. These projects will address the aesthetic, symbolic and poetic potentials of new media in the context of an encoded media practice.
Introduces a discursive framework for media, design and cultural interfaces enabling students to interpret, negotiate, and engage with new media with an awareness of the significance of cultural and contextual difference. Assessment is based on written and project work. Prerequisite: completion of 18 units. Breadth-Humanities.
An overview of the various forms and languages of drawing as both a critical and creative research tool.  Activities and projects in each unit offer opportunities to understand and apply drawing as a medium for visual thinking and conceptualization. Related social and gender concerns are investigated to contextualize figurative representations within a broader cultural framework. Students with credit for IART 216, 217 and 218 may not take this course for further credit.
Identifies characteristics of critical thinking and innovative and creative thinking, and develops a framework for discussing and understanding concepts of knowing, questioning, and developing and presenting ideas. Students learn to build an argument through rhetorical methods, explore the history and formulation of criticism, develop and formulate questions as a mechanism for constructing and supporting concept building. Students will explore the characteristics of innovation and creativity, including the importance of informational mediaries such as "opinion leaders" and "change agents." Prerequisite: minimum of 18 units. Students with credit for INTD 213, 214 and 215 may not take this course for further credit.
Identifies characteristics of critical thinking and innovative and creative thinking, and develops a framework for discussing and understanding concepts of knowing, questioning, and developing and presenting ideas. Students learn to build an argument through rhetorical methods, explore the history and formulation of criticism, develop and formulate questions as a mechanism for constructing and supporting concept building. Students will explore the characteristics of innovation and creativity, including the importance of informational mediaries such as "opinion leaders" and "change agents."  Prerequisite: minimum of 18 units. Students with credit for INTD 213, 214 and 215 may not take this course for further credit. Writing.
Introduces key concepts within contemporary digital art practices. Issues surrounding digital art will be explored through readings, the study of artworks, and the creation of their own artistic projects. Prerequisite: completion of 24 units. Students with credit for IAT 322, IART 319, 320, or 321 cannot take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities.
Designing and understanding spaces used by people. The iterative process of making and criticizing, experiencing and analysing spatial form. Compositional ideas for form-making. Critical thinking applied to design. Computers are the principal medium used in this course for form-making and visualization. Prerequisite: IAT 102 or an approved course in design. IAT 102 can be taken as co-requisite from September 2008 to August 2009.
Introduces theory and practice of designing visual representations of information. Students will learn to visually translate textual, numerical and evidentiary information so that it can be communicated to diverse user communities and contexts. An emphasis will be on understanding how the meaning of images can change over time and across contexts and cultures. Beginning with photographic images, interactive charts, graphs, and maps, projects progress to more complex information in media forms ranging from advanced aspects of the web to interactive 3D visualizations. The relationship between visual display is explored in relation to its technology of creation, including code and information architecture. Prerequisite: IAT 102. IAT 102 can be taken as co-requisite from September 2008 to August 2009.
An introduction to the acoustic and psychoacoustic properties of our sense of space as provided by sound and their digital mediation. Recording, editing and interactive audio design are introduced and used for the composition of audible spatial environments. Students learn the theory and practice of sound as it interacts with visible images and explore fundamental audio techniques for interactive audio-visual presentation. Students with credit for IART 243, 244 and 245 may not take this course for further credit.
An introduction to digital photography and photographic image modification through the use of computer technology. Students will build skills and techniques in digital photography and image processing for digital printing, the web, and interactive multimedia. Emphasis is placed on acquiring digital photographic skills based on proficiency through the appropriate use of software and image editing tools. Image formatting possibilities are investigated, along with aesthetic/functional aspects of site navigation, design, sequence and consistency. Students with credit for IART 222, 223 and 224 may not take this course for further credit.
Using cases from topics such as animation, cinema, music and design, this course introduces a variety of programming tools and techniques. Practical use of multimedia scripting languages and authoring environments is covered in the context of a series of composition and design projects. Code libraries and programming techniques for specific media will be introduced. Assessment will be based on both programming and the expressive use of programs in their case context. Prerequisite: 18 units including CMPT 166 (or equivalent first programming course such as CMPT 120, 125, 126, or 128).
Introduction to the core technologies and systems used in media-rich interactive environments, including computer hardware, operating systems, input and output technologies, networking and media. The concepts will be examined by working in a high-level media programming environment. Prerequisite: 18 units including CMPT 166 (or equivalent first programming course such as CMPT 120, 125, 126, or 128). Recommended: IAT 265 or other second year programming course.
First term of work experience for students in the SIAT Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards completion of an Simon Fraser University degree. Graded as pass/fail. Students with credit for WKTM 100 cannot complete this course for further credit.
Second term of work experience for students in the SIAT Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards completion of an Simon Fraser University degree. Graded as pass/fail. Prerequisite: IAT 271 (or WKTM 100). Students with credit for WKTM 200 cannot complete this course for further credit.
Develops critical thinking and writing strategies adaptable to professional communications in design, media arts and technology. Prerequisite: 48 units including a lower division W course. Writing.
Examines the discipline of game design. Games are studied across three analytical frameworks: games as rules (formal system), games as play (experiential system), games as culture (social system). Includes analytical and practical exercises in game design. Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units. Students with credit for IART 404, 405 or 406 cannot take this course for further credit.
Explores the role of narrative in various media and New Media environments, from traditional linear environments and multi-linear and networked media environments. Examines the relationship of narrative elements in the light of the practice and the aesthetics of New Media. It will include an overview of New Media theorists. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units. Students with credit for IART 325, 326, or 327 cannot take this course for further credit.
Explores ideas of embodiment, knowledge, and space within the human relationship to technology. Throughout this course, students will construct and analyze contemporary and historical models of bodily interaction with machines, understand physical practices of embodiment, and apply these concepts to representation, design, and the production of artistic interface. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 267, 301 or 222; students with credit for IART 331, 332, or 333 cannot take this course for further credit.
Examines concepts of design practice and related design methods for interaction designers. Design methods include ethnography, personas, design games, role-playing, scenarios, participatory workshops, and prototyping. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 265. Recommended: IAT 102 or 233. Students with credit for IART 316, 317 or 318 cannot take this course for further credit.
Provides an introduction to the art and design of human-computer interfaces, design methods, prototyping and evaluation of user interfaces. Examines issues of interactivity and its relation to human contexts and technological systems. The role of aesthetic, symbolic, affective and cultural factors will be assessed in concert with scientific and technological issues. The class is primarily focused on visual interfaces on computer monitors and hand-held devices, but culminates with considerations of increasingly physical interactions in ubiquitous environments. Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units, including IAT 235.
Examines methods for analyzing and gathering requirements for design situations as they relate to the range of ubiquitous computing applications. Examines the conceptual frameworks for understanding human action and context in design situations. Students will review a range of methods for requirements gathering, interviews, observation, ethnographic, ethno-methodological, performance workshops and informance design techniques. Students will also study qualitative, quantitative, and interpretive modes of analysis of data and how to support design with these findings. Students will engage in a range of case-stories and projects focused on user analysis. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 232 and IAT 331. Recommended: IAT 302.
Introduces material properties and performance in the context of interactive artifacts. Covers criteria for material selection, including durability, environmental effects, tactile properties, manufacturing processes, compatibility and effects of particular forms of use. Prerequisite: IAT 233 or 230.
Introduces computer-based tools for representing and fabricating designs. Covers the representation of work within a design process, the use of visualization techniques to communicate with clients, and the use of digital fabrication technology to build prototypes. Projects are chosen to highlight key representational issues in contemporary design practice. Prerequisite: IAT 233 or 230.
Develops programming and scripting skills for developing combined software, and hardware prototype versions of interactive objects and environments. Covers the art and design of interactive objects and environments. Methodologies emphasizing embodiment, kinesthetics and haptics are introduced by combining theory and practice. Students develop programming skills for developing working prototypes comprised of software, sensors, and hardware. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 233, 235 and 267, or IAT 230, 231, 232 and 204. Students with credit for IART 313, 314 or 315 cannot take this course for further credit.
Techniques in real-time audio digital signal processing appropriate for game development and virtual environments are explored including interactive speech, music and sound effects. In conjunction with a study of the theory of the interaction of sound with other media elements students will have the opportunity to pursue interests in the design of sound for moving images and the composition of dynamic, navigable and immersive aural settings embedded in 3D graphic environments. Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units, including IAT 243.
An introduction to techniques for 3D computer animation such as keyframing, performance animation, procedural methods, motion capture, and simulation. The course also includes an overview of story-boarding, scene composition, lighting and sound track generation. The course will explore current research topics in computer animation such as facial animation, behavioral animation, artificial life and interactive systems. Prerequisite: minimum of 24 units, including MATH 130 or MACM 101 or MATH 151 or equivalent. Students with credit for IAT 241, or IART 219, 220 and 221 may not take this course for further credit.
Reviews and consolidates the fundamentals of digital video production, including camera and composition skills, the role of sound, lighting, and continuity and montage editing. Students will review and analyze works from traditional cinema and from contemporary digital video. The course will reinforce fundamental skills and extend the student's abilities to use a range of digital production, post-production, and presentation techniques. Prerequisite: minimum of 48 units and IAT 202 or 101 or other approved digital video course. Students with credit for IAT 242, IART 222, 223 and 224 may not take this course for further credit.
Students will learn about and gain experience with a wide variety of interaction technologies, environments and architectures supporting user interaction with systems in work, learning and play. Applied topics may include, but are not limited to, collaboration and computers; ubiquitous and responsive environments; security, trust and privacy; networking; and distributed and heterogeneous interfaces. Emphasis is on practical experience, involving a group design/analysis project in advanced topics in human computer interaction. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 265 or other approved second year programming course, and IAT 201 or equivalent introductory HCI course. Strongly recommended: IAT 267.
Architectures and technologies that people use for creating, capturing, storing, sharing, and accessing knowledge and information are introduced. XML technologies, databases and data mining are reviewed as means for sharing, storing and extracting knowledge in the context of personalized systems. The server-client and service oriented architectures are examined from the perspective of building interactive systems. Internet computing and collaborative technologies, including video conferencing, chat systems, peer to peer systems, social networking, and portals are reviewed as means for creating and sharing knowledge and information. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 265 or other approved second year programming course.
Focuses on the design and implementation of interactive computer visualization techniques for the analysis, comprehension, and explanation of large collections of abstract information. The application of principles from perception, information visualization, interaction and visual analytics will be covered. Introduces tools for programming geometric information and displaying the results. Emphasizes development of practical skills in using graphics libraries and tools: students will develop programming experience with relevant examples and techniques. Prerequisite: IAT 201 and IAT 267 and either IAT 265 or CMPT 225 or other approved second year programming course. Recommended: IAT 235.
Third term of work experience for students in the SIAT Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards completion of an Simon Fraser University degree. Graded as pass/fail. Prerequisite: IAT 272 (or WKTM 200). Students with credit for WKTM 300 cannot complete this course for further credit.
Fourth term of work experience for students in the SIAT Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards completion of an Simon Fraser University degree. Graded as pass/fail. Prerequisite: IAT 373 (or WKTM 300). Students with credit for WKTM 400 cannot complete this course for further credit.
Optional fifth term of work experience for students in the SIAT Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards completion of an Simon Fraser University degree. Graded as pass/fail. Prerequisite: IAT 374 (or WKTM 400)
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to registration each semester. Prerequisite: 48 units and permission of the School.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to registration each semester. Prerequisite: 48 units and permission of the School.
Independent reading and research topics selected in consultation with individual members of the SIAT faculty. Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units, and permission of the instructor and of the School is required. No more than 6 units of Directed Studies may be taken.
Independent reading and research topics selected in consultation with individual members of the SIAT faculty. Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units, and permission of the School and the instructor is required. No more than 6 units of Directed Studies may be taken.
Part of the 9-12 Credit italiaDesign Field School curriculum. The first course of four is taught in Vancouver five weeks prior to departure for Italy. Students prepare research plans for use once they arrive at each of four destinations (Rome, Tuscany, Florence, Milan). The course covers histories of city planning, architecture and urban design in these venues that live on in contemporary Italian design.  Field school instruction is in three phases: (1) Vancouver: methodology and preparatory research work; (2) field study on-site in italy, and upon return to Vancouver; (3) synthesis and writing-up of research and final arguments. This course fulfills the first phase. All projects will be available for viewing at the ItaliaDesign Field School public website. Students will also present their work to a live audience. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units. Corequisite: IAT 392/IAT 393 (ItaliaDesign Field School).
Part of the 9-12 Credit ItaliaDesign Field School curriculum. Field school instruction is in three phases: (1) Vancouver: methodology and preparatory research work; (2) field study on-site in Italy, and upon return to Vancouver; (3) synthesis and writing-up of research and final arguments. This course fulfils one half of phase 2 fieldwork in Italy. Student work is primarily in Rome and the hill towns of Tuscany and Florence. It requires using design and social science field methodologies to organize observations made of daily life and its expression in cultural patterns. Pattern "languages" provide a taxonomy, linking prior scholarship to student field work. This work in turn provides historical roots to understanding contemporary Italian design and design industry. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units. Corequisite: IAT 391/IAT 393 (ItaliaDesign Field School).
Involves a sequential series of projects based on field studies in Florence and Milan. Students are required to examine and interpret the impact of design on Italian life and culture in each designated centre. The field studies are supported by a series of in-situ lectures to provide a context for further reflection. Minor independent projects are completed in Florence and Milan followed by a major collaborative project focusing on an interpretation and reflection of the impact of design on life in Italy. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units. Corequisite: IAT 391/392 (ItaliaDesign Field School).
An optional fourth course and directed study. Participants must receive approval for their topics from the Field School instruction team prior to departure to Italy. Students can work individually or in teams on research or applied projects. Research must contribute to the ongoing ItaliaDesign repository. Projects focus on furthering knowledge of Italian Design and Innovation practices and extending the course concepts.  Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units, including IAT 391, 392 and 393.
Development and evaluation of a media, design or informatics project. Projects vary from year to year and relate to current social and technological issues in society as well as students' interests and affinities. Design methods used will vary with project type. Covers the spectrum of the production process from problem definition to prototype. Students continue working on the project in the follow-up course IAT 405. Students may not concurrently enrol in IAT 402 and 403. Prerequisite: for SIAT Majors - completion of 63 units including upper division writing course and SIAT lower division requirements plus nine upper division IAT units; for SIAT Joint Majors - 63 units including upper division writing course and specified lower division requirements plus nine upper division IAT units; for non-SIAT Majors - special permission of the instructor. Students with credit for IAT 400, INTD 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, or 406 cannot take this course for further credit. Highly recommended: IAT 405 is to be completed in the subsequent term.
Development and evaluation of a media, design or informatics project. The project is a continuation of the project started in IAT 403. The actual projects vary from year to year and relate to current social and technological issues in society as well as students' interests and affinities. Design methods used will vary with project type. Covers the spectrum of the production process from problem definition to prototype. Students may not concurrently enrol in IAT 404 and 405. Prerequisite: IAT 403.
Students will design and develop a variety of electronic games, culminating in an advanced game project. They will continue to analyze the experience of play within the game, and the connections between the game experience and broader cultural phenomena. Prerequisite: completion of 63 units, including IAT 265 or equivalent programming course. Students with credit for IART 404, 405 or 406 cannot take this course for further credit. Strongly recommended: IAT 312.
Provides students with the opportunity to experiment with designing in various non-normative frameworks provided by cultural studies, critical theory and phenomenology. Students will examine design's potential for cultural, social and ethical critique of emerging technologies and society. Rather than merely illustrating theoretical positions, this examination involves enacting and embodying differing theoretical positions, thereby rendering criticism productive. Individual design expertise and voice is emphasized. Prerequisite: completion of 63 units.
Examines evaluation concepts and methods for designers. Introduces a range of evaluation approaches including informal usability studies, lab experiments, field studies, and analytically-based evaluations. Students will explore techniques for feedback including usability tests, observation, interviews, heuristic reviews, and discursive evaluations. Underlying concepts of evaluation including scientific experimentation, ethnography, phenomenology, and aesthetics will be discussed. Students will learn how to design and implement appropriate evaluation studies for a range of design projects. Prerequisite: completion of 63 units. Recommended: IAT 201 and 235. Students with credit for IAT 332 may not take this course for further credit.
An intermediate level investigation of interactivity explored through media, in the context of current display technologies relevant to Interactive Arts and Design. Examines recombinant, computational and compositional structures related to image, sound and video. Students explore video within technologies ranging from cell phones and mobile locative media, and hand held and wearable devices, to 3D immersive virtual and/or networked environments, video art installations, multiple scales of display technology, and responsive spaces. Students will design, produce and critically appraise work. Prerequisite: IAT 344 or 242.
Introduces advanced 3D computer animation and virtual world building techniques. Integrates hands-on fundamentals with design praxis and theoretical and research concerns. Fundamentals are complemented with examples from current research and design praxis. The studio aspect of the course will include assignments focusing on specific animation and behaviour modeling techniques and a team-based design project. Prerequisite: IAT 343 or 241. Students with credit for IART 416, 417, or 418 cannot take this course for further credit.
Ubiquitous environments are those in which information and control services are available for casual use. The design of such environments requires in-depth understanding of patterns of use, user-centred design processes and knowledge of enabling technologies. This course covers all three areas, with particular emphasis on how technologies enable human action. The well-known example of a smart house is used to motivate and demonstrate how ubiquity can act as a design principle. Prerequisite: Completion of 48 units, including CMPT 225.
Introduces approaches to customizing and developing software applications as design-support tools to be employed in dynamic design environments comprising people, other tools, and their interactions in relation to the tasks to be performed. Discusses effective strategies for software development to find the best matching solutions for a given situation and applies the select methods in software design, prototyping, and evaluation. Makes use of software development processes, languages, and notations in representing design of the tools being developed. Experiments with contemporary systems such as drafting tools (CAD), authoring applications (for games, Websites, animations), parametric design-modeling systems, etc.; and searches their potentials to enhance design environments. Prerequisite: completion of 48 units, including IAT 351.
The representation of media is introduced: specifically one dimensional (sound), two dimensional (images) and three dimensional (moving images). This course focuses on techniques and methods for creating digital video special effects, allowing students to explore their creativity while extending their graphics and programming skills in digital media. Computational techniques based on signal processing are developed that support the creation, manipulation, combination, transformation, compression, storage and display/performance of different media forms. An important aspect is representation in the temporal/spatial vs. the frequency domain and different transformation techniques. Students will be required to generate special effects, critique and analyze effects from movies, develop skills and abilities to manipulate digital video and audio, and implement their own algorithms to express their technical and artistic skills. Prerequisite: IAT 265 and MACM 101. Recommended: MATH 151 or equivalent.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite:    completion of 69 units and permission of the school.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: Completion of 69 units and permission of the instructor.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: completion of 69 units and permission of the instructor.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: Completion of 69 units and permission of the instructor.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: Completion of 69 units and permission of the instructor.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: Completion of 69 units and permission of the instructor.
Independent reading and research topics selected in consultation with individual members of the SIAT faculty. Prerequisite: Completion of 69 units, and permission of the instructor and School are required. No more than 6 units of Directed Studies may be taken.
Independent reading and research topics selected in consultation with individual members of the SIAT faculty. Prerequisite: Completion of 69 units, and permission of the instructor and School are required. No more than 6 units of Directed Studies may be taken.
Independent reading and research topics selected in consultation with individual members of the IAT faculty. Prerequisite: completion of 69 units. No more than six units of Directed Studies may be taken, and permission of the instructor and school are required.
Preparation for Honors Thesis Project including literature review, ethics approval (if necessary), and presentation of work in progress at end of the term. Prerequisite: Students accepted into Honors Program only.
Intensive work related to a particular topic in the field of Interactive Arts and Technology. Involves an extensive individual project under direct supervision of at least two committee members (at least one of whom is a SIAT faculty member) who will provide guidance and critical feedback as necessary. Prerequisite: Successful completion of IAT 490.
Aims at a robust understanding of models for art and design and representations of these models as symbol systems. It meets these aims through a set of case studies that demonstrate how computational thinking can affect professional and research outcomes. Its outcomes are preparedness for further relevant study and developing skill in using computers to support research and professional work in art and design.
An introduction to qualitative research practices. Covers structures of research that are prevalent across and at the intersection of the areas of art, design, media, human-computer interaction and information studies, introduces research methodologies and tools, and teaches methods for interdisciplinary work. This course will foster a critical discourse among differences in approaches to research.
Introduction to the research enterprise from a quantitative perspective. It covers structures of research that are prevalent across fields, introduces research methodologies and tools, teaches methods for interdisciplinary work and fosters a critical discourse around differences among research in different areas. Prerequisite: Graduate student status.
Through an interdisciplinary speaker series, presents research topics relevant to the SIAT graduate program. Engages students in discussion and debate on the utility, results and methods of research. Prerequisite: Enrolment in the SIAT graduate program.
Theory, history and current research in the field of new media. Its methods are the interweaving of design, social/cultural, learning and aesthetic theories. Historical views of the field are provided through an analysis of the histories of technology, moments of media emergence, social and cultural movements, design and aesthetics. Outcomes are exploration, analysis and development of applied methods in order to better understand, design, create and assess new media and future "newer media" developments.
The theory and practice of metacreation, i.e. the design of generative and pro-active computer software endowed with creative behaviour is presented. Tools and techniques from artificial intelligence, artificial life and machine learning are introduced and exemplified through their application in previous artistic works. The interweaving of related theoretical and practical issues situates metacreation within a larger perspective on art, science and technology.
Addresses what it means to know something, how people gain and use knowledge and complex skills, how to determine what an individual knows, how humans learn, how humans solve complex problems, how knowledge is created within a social and group context, and how to model human capabilities and performance. It selects and studies theoretical perspectives that inform the design of computer-based mediated environments, products and experiences.
Applications of computational intelligence to art and design are introduced through a set of motivating examples. Specific areas of application include knowledge representation, problem solving, rule based systems, ontologies and statistical reasoning.
Provides a cognitive and computational framework for understanding and designing graphical and visual representations. Investigates several psychological and computational models of diagram processing, and explores diverse interactive graphical systems.
Analyses, designs and prototypes more effective and more appropriate products and systems to support interactivity. This course will examine these issues through an iterative modeling process.
Explores the theory and practice of performance and technology in the context of interactive-art. Investigates interactive performance as an emerging practice-based area of research. Grounds performance practice in a variety of fields including: human computer interaction, phenomenology, artificial intelligence, embodied cognition and computation, computer games, and virtual worlds.
A range of ways of knowing and inquiring in design research are explored by providing comparisons of different traditions appropriate for empirical mixed method design evaluations. This is a second research methods course. Prerequisite: One research methods course, either quantitative or qualitative. Students who received credit for this course when offered as IAT 888 Special Topics in Spring 2007 cannot take this course for further credit.
Sustainable interaction design (SID) examines the role of design in digital artifacts that support environmental sustainability. SID considers digital artifacts with respect to recycling, reuse, and renewal. The aim of the course is to introduce and understand SID concepts, research, and practice.
Games have become a major part of our culture, rivaling the popularity of movies. Drawing on a wide variety of examples and disciplines, this course examines theories and techniques for the analysis of existing games, and the design of new ones. It studies game design, and will provide students with the conceptual and technical tools necessary to critique and design games of all kinds.
Covers the concepts, algorithms and design principles underlying modern 3D computer animation and visualization from a user interface perspective. Research topics include 3D user interface constructs; information, data and knowledge visualization; 3D graphics and animation; spatial perception; and virtual and immersive environments.
Key models of research into technological systems are analysed and compared. Together, they frame diverse methodologies for art, social science, business, engineering and information technology. Focus will vary by instructor and disciplinary combination being examined. In contrast to the Research Methods and Strategies Course, this offering considers specialized, discipline specific research tools taken in combination. These may be qualitative, quantitative, laboratory-based, field based (as in survey research), actively experimental or based on secondary analysis of archival data. This course is designated as a research methods course.
Introduces students to the design of computational systems that themselves support the design process. Prerequisite: IAT 800.
Theory and practice of the metacreation as a contemporary approach to generative art and design that involves using tools and techniques from artificial intelligence, artificial life, and machine learning to develop software that is creative on their own. Through the project students will build software that exhibits behaviour that would be considered creative if performed by humans. Prerequisite: IAT 800. Students who completed IAT 811 in 2008 or 2009 or IAT 888 in 2010 are ineligible to take this course for further credit.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Students who are working on their Master of Arts thesis enrol in this course. This course will not count towards the course work requirements.
Students who are working on their Master of Science thesis enrol in this course. This course will not count towards the course work requirements.
Students who are working on their PhD dissertation enrol in this course. This course will not count towards the course work requirements. PhD candidate status is neither required for nor implied by enrolment in this course.
Introduces international studies historically, tracing the patterns of conflicts and co-operation between nations, states and social groups in the world of the last half of the twentieth century and into the twenty-first. Examines important problems in the contemporary world from the perspectives of different social science disciplines: poverty and development aid; war; and environmental change. Considers the challenge of global governance. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to the study of diplomacy, security and the development of international law. Emphasis will be on the 19th and 20th centuries, preceded by a general survey of early notions of sovereignty, concepts of total war and primitive diplomatic institutions, as well as the role of religion in politics. Prerequisite: IS 101, or permission of the department.
Introduces students to the variety of systems of governance in the world today, examines the historical and cultural sources of their different developmental trajectories, and assesses the challenges they face in the future. Prerequisite: IS 101 or consent of the department. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Analyzes some of the historical reasons for the great divergence in world economic development, and undertakes a cross-country, cross-regional perspective of world economic development using a historical approach to long-run economic growth. Prerequisite: IS 101 and ECON 105. Students with credit for INTS 220 may not take this course for further credit.
Provides a survey of the basic issues relating to the study of transnationalism and society. Topics covered include identity and ethnicity, urbanization, migration, social networks, politics, and religion. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Provides an introduction to the research enterprise in international studies with a particular focus on quantitative methods. Prerequisite: 12 units. Students who have taken POL 201 or SA 255 may not take IS 240 for further credit. Quantitative.
Investigates complex emergencies and the outcomes of conflict, specifically forced migration by refugees and internally displaced people (IDPs). Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Surveys the ethnic minorities of Southeast Asia, focusing on their relations with other ethnic groups, especially majority populations, and governments. Examines the treatment of ethnic minorities and the responses of the minorities, including ethnic-based secession movements. Reviews cross-border and broader international issues relating to minorities, such as their status as refugees and cross-border support for insurgencies. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Introduces the Russian Federation's foreign and security policies. Reviews key actors, institutions, and stages in the development of Russian foreign policy development as well as the gap between rhetoric and realities in Russian foreign policy. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Examines factors influencing democratic tradition and consolidation in different regional settings comparatively, and explores the complex factors that influence the process of democratization. Analyzes the domestic and external conditions (cultural, social, economic, and political) that historically and recently have fostered or impeded the maintenance of democracy, particularly in post-conflict environments, 'new states,' and states challenged by the decay or collapse of traditional authoritarian forms of rule. Prerequisite: IS 200 or 210, and 45 units.
An examination of the differing narratives of nation and modernity in the struggle for independence from colonial rule in India, and their implications for the post-colonial state, for politics and for India's economic development. Prerequisite: IS 210 and 45 units. Recommended: IS 231. Writing.
Provides an overview of national and political issues in Southeast Asia. Surveying politics in individual countries and regional political institutions, focus is given to particular themes such as democratization and civil society, communism and other forms of authoritarianism, the role of the military, decentralization, religion and politics, the impact of China on the region, and security concerns. Prerequisite: IS 210 and 45 units.
Introduces the political, economic, and ideological dynamics of contemporary Middle Eastern states. Examines the legacy of colonialism, state formation, central ideological trends such as Arab nationalism and political Islam, the dynamics of state-society contention, and the challenges of economic development. Prerequisite: IS 200, 210, or 220, and 45 units. Students who have taken IS 419 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: IS 210 and 45 units.
Introduces students to selected problems in the international economy. Topics are drawn from both international trade and international macroeconomics. Agricultural subsidies, tariffs and quotas, the Multi-fiber Agreement, the evolution of the world's airline industries, and the "brain drain" are of interest. Macroeconomics topics include the theory and evidence associated with currency crises, economic integration including understanding the NAFTA, the EU and German reunification and, more speculatively, the potential for Korean unification. Why economic growth is successful in some countries and not others will round out the topics. Prerequisite: IS 220 and 45 units; ECON 342 or ECON 345. Students with credit for INTS 320 may not take this course for further credit.
Explores patterns of economic development in Africa with an emphasis on the post-colonial period, showing how dominant theoretical paradigms influenced the formation of development policy in Africa and how these in turn led to rethinking development theory. Prerequisite: IS 220 and 45 units. Students who have completed IS 429 in this topic may not complete this course for further credit.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: IS 220 and 45 units.
Challenges posed by state failure and fragility, and the tasks of reconstructing or building viable states, involve critical security dimensions that are of both a military and non-military nature. The issues of security, development, stabilization and democratization are inextricably linked. Exploration of the extensive body of literature on state formation and decay in various regional settings with an emphasis on the causes of state failure, and the prospects of state rebuilding. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Explores the background, dynamics, and outcomes of complex humanitarian emergencies generated by widespread violence and national catastrophes, drawing on country and regional case studies of international intervention to implement post-conflict and post-disaster recovery. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Considers the national and international impact of terror and terrorist organizations both in historical context and as a function of current events. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
Independent research in a selected international studies area, under the supervision of at least one faculty member. A research report is required. Prerequisite: by application to the undergraduate chair. May only be taken once for credit towards a degree or diploma.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: IS 200 and 45 units.
The quality of institutions' exercises a crucial influence on the prospects for development. Aims are to interrogate this claim through analysis of different paths of economic growth and change across the developing world. Examination of the ways in which politics influences economic growth and distribution; the relationships between political systems and patterns of development; and the politics of institutions and state formation. Prerequisite: IS 210 and 45 units.
Examines the new states of post-Soviet Central Asia, the Transcaucasus and Russia, with particular reference to the relationship among democratization, development, autocracy and conflict, and the role of external actors in transnational security issues in the region. Prerequisite: IS 200 or 210, and 45 units.
Reviews important current regional issues in Southeast Asia with particular attention to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Prerequisite: IS 303 or 314. Students who have completed IS 419 under this topic may not complete this course for further credit.
Focuses upon the political Islamist movements that have swept much of the Middle East and North Africa since the mid-1970s. Examines a broad range of movements, from liberal to militant trends, drawing on the experiences of countries throughout the region. Prerequisite: IS 315 or HIST 151, and 45 units. Students who have taken IS 419 under this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Independent research in a selected international studies area, under the supervision at least one faculty member. A research report is required, Prerequisite: by application to the undergraduate chair. May only be taken once for credit towards a degree or diploma.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: IS 210 and 45 units.
Develops an understanding of the interactions between international organizations, economic theory, and implementation of economic policies. Explores as well the impact of their interventions in some chosen countries. Prerequisite: IS 220, and one of IS 210, 200 or 230, and eight upper division units within stream 3; or permission of the department.
Analyzes the origins and the economic consequences of globalization and the uneven process of economic development around the world in relation to poverty, by considering the measurement of poverty, its causes and dynamics, as well as public policy for poverty reduction. Prerequisite: IS 220 and 45 units.
Independent research in a selected international studies area, under the supervision of at least one faculty member. A research report is required. Prerequisite: by application to the undergraduate chair. May only be taken once for credit towards a degree or diploma.
Specific details of courses to be offered will be published prior to enrolment each term. Prerequisite: IS 220 and 45 units.
An interdisciplinary course which aims to bring together different disciplinary perspectives on international affairs through the study of in-depth particular contemporary problems. Prerequisite: International Studies major or honors students. Eight upper division units. Writing.
An interdisciplinary course which aims to bring together different disciplinary perspectives on international affairs through the study of influential texts which, between them, involve study of core themes to the program: development, governance and civil society, war and peace, human rights and questions of culture and ethnicity. Prerequisite: International Studies major or honors students. Eight upper division units.
A multidisciplinary study of a selected country or region. Prerequisite: completion of 45 units and permission of the department.
Intended for the research and preparation of materials for the honors graduating essay. Prerequisite: Admission is by permission of the instructor and the School. Students must complete this course before taking IS 499. Open only to students who have been accepted into the honors program.
In addition to regular meetings with their supervisors, students will be required to submit a major paper on a topic to be selected in consultation with the School. Prerequisite: IS 490. Admission is by permission of the instructor and the School. Open only to students who have been accepted into the honors program.
An inter-disciplinary course which aims to bring together different disciplinary perspectives on problems of policy and practice in international development. The particular problems taken up will be changed over time, with current events. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in the MA in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
'The quality of institutions' is now said to exercise a crucial influence on the prospects for development, and the course interrogates this claim both through analysis of different paths of economic growth and change across the developing world, and in regard to public administration and development management. It examines development policies and institutional theories, the politics of institutions and state formation, and the relationships between political systems, institutions and patterns of development. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in the MA in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
Examines the historical political economy of development. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in Stream A of the MA in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
Examines the evolution of the role of modern diplomacy in the 19th century and its application in the international relations of the 20th century; its practice and institutions. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in Stream B of the MA in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
The challenges posed by the 'new wars' and by state failure, and their consequences, the needs of humanitarian intervention, and the tasks of reconstructing or building viable states, involve critical security dimensions that are of both a military and non-military nature. It will explore the extensive body of literature on state formation and decay, and on intervention, in various regional settings with an emphasis on the causes of state failure, and the prospects of state rebuilding. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in Stream B of the MA  in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
A multidisciplinary exploration of the background, dynamics, and outcomes of complex humanitarian emergencies, both those generated by conflict and war and by national disasters, drawing on country and regional case studies. The problems surrounding international intervention in such emergencies will be a particular focus. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in Stream B of the MA  in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
A multi-disciplinary examination of the roles played by international organizations in addressing the difficulties of post-conflict recovery and external intervention in complex humanitarian emergencies. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in Stream B of the MA in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
Examines the specific development experience of a selected region, taking account of the historical context, of state capacity, development strategies and of the political economy of development - as well as of the particular problems of development across different sectors of the economy, and the outcomes in regard to poverty and levels of well-being. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in Stream A of the MA in International Studies, or permission of the instructor.
Introduces important patterns of economic development in Africa with an emphasis on the post-colonial period. Basic economic theory, and the practical application of these in African economic development will be explored. We will see how dominant theoretical paradigms influenced the formulation of development policy in Africa and how in turn these led to rethinking development theory. Prerequisite:    enrolment in the MA in International Studies Program.
Examines a range of perspectives about security and applies them to key international issues. Prerequisites: must be a graduate student enrolled in stream B of the MA in international studies program; or permission of the instructor.
Introduces key methods in international studies, critically assessing them as concepts and as tools for helping understand the world around us. Prerequisite: acceptance into the MA in International Studies Program. Undergraduate course work in methods is highly recommended.
Preparatory course for IS 888 MA Project. Prerequisite: enrolment in the MA in International Studies program.
Students are expected to complete either two extended essays (each of not more than 8,000 words) based on core readings, or with the approval of the program director, a project. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in the MA in International Studies.
Students are expected to complete either two extended essays (each of not more than 8,000 words) based on core readings, or with the approval of the program director, a project. Prerequisite: graduate students enrolled in the MA in International Studies continuing to work on their project.
Examines several Latin American nations from historical, political, and political economy perspectives. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department. This course is identical to LAS 337 and POL 337 and students cannot take this course for further credit.
An advanced examination of the political life of Western European democratic systems, with special attention to issues of comparative and theoretical import, such as the causes and consequences of various types of party systems and the determinants of democratic stability. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in international studies and/or political science or permission of the department or school.
This seminar, designed for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, will discuss contemporary political issues arising from aspects of globalization, such as free trade agreements, international migration policies, and political reactions to the global media within particular regions of the world. The seminar will expose students to primary data research, and involve the development of a course project in line with their particular interests. Prerequisite: 30 units. POL 450 and LAS 450 are identical and students cannot take this course for further credit.
This seminar, designed for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, will discuss contemporary political issues arising from aspects of globalization, such as free trade agreements, international migration policies, and political reactions to the global media within particular regions of the world. The seminar will expose students to primary data research, and involve the development of a course project in line with their particular interests. Prerequisite: 30 units. POL 450 and LAS 450 are identical and students cannot take this course for further credit. Writing.
Surveys theoretical and applied issues in Latin American development from a political economy perspective. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or LAS 200 or permission of the department. This course is identical to POL 383, POL 483, LAS 318, 428, SA 328 and 428, and students cannot take more than one of these courses for further credit.
This course is designed to provide the student with the means of acquiring basic spoken fluency and reading facility.
This course continues the work of ITAL 100. Considerable emphasis will be placed on oral and reading facility as well as basic writing skills. Prerequisite: ITAL 100.
An intermediate Italian course continuing the work of ITAL 101. In addition to consolidation of oral practice, grammar, reading and composition skills, a cultural component is included as well as selected readings from Italian authors. Prerequisite: ITAL 101.
ITAL 201 continues the work of ITAL 200. Oral and written competence in Italian are extended through grammar review, oral practice, cultural studies, selected readings from Italian authors and multimedia activities. Prerequisite: ITAL 200.
Will continue the work of the 200-level courses with emphasis on the cultural aspects of Italian life. How does one live in Italy today? What are the cultural differences between the various regions? Fluency in language use, both oral and written, will be enhanced. Prerequisite: ITAL 201 or permission of Instructor.
Continues the work of JAPN 100. Prerequisite: JAPN 100 or equivalent.
Continues the work of JAPN 101. Emphasizes all four skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Everyday language is emphasized. Prerequisite: JAPN 101 or  equivalent.
Continues the work of JAPN 200. Prerequisite: JAPN 200 or equivalent.
Continuation of JAPN 201: the first course of the intermediate level. Students will learn to comprehend intellectually oriented materials, process the information needed for judgment and decision making, and express their inner feelings and thoughts. Topics and situations are drawn from the real world. 200 more Kanji introduced (cumulatively a total of 700). Prerequisite: JAPN 201 or placement.
Basic anatomy and physiology of the skeletal, muscular, nervous, endocrine, cardio-respiratory, urinary, digestive, immune, and reproductive systems.(distance education).  Kinesiology majors and honors students may not receive credit for KIN 105.  KIN 205 or 208 may be used as a substitute for KIN 105 by students in the Kinesiology Minor and Certificate programs. No student may take both KIN 105 and KIN 208 for credit. Recommended: grade 11 biology, chemistry and physics.
An introduction of the principles of human nutrition with an emphasis on topics of current interest. The material is presented in a Canadian context to focus on nutrition practices and problems in this country. Students will gain an understanding of factors affecting food selection and the role of nutrition in maintaining good health. Students will develop the ability to discriminate between reliable and unreliable information on the subject of food and nutrition. Breadth-Science.
This course includes basic information on food, the safety of the food supply and current issues around the production, storage and distribution of food. Students will gain an understanding of basic food components, the physical foundations of food science, and the elements of food processing and preservation. Food-borne disease, biotechnology, irradiation of food, contaminants and additives in food, Canadian food labelling and advertising regulations, and food consumption trends will be examined. Nutritional biochemistry concepts will be interfaced with practical questions of food choice and eating practices. Recommended: grade 11 chemistry.
Explores health from a holistic perspective, in which health is viewed as physical, psychological, and social well-being. Considers genetics, environment, personal health behaviors (such as diet, exercise, stress management, and drug use), socioeconomic status, health care delivery systems, and aging with the intent to improve students' abilities to evaluate health information. Breadth-Science.
Basic procedures for the assessment of the status and performance of the individual according to the principles of anthropometry, functional anatomy, biomechanics, exercise physiology, and motor learning. Recommended: grade 11 biology, chemistry and physics. Breadth-Science.
Introduces the student to exercise physiology. Focuses on personal exercise prescription to improve aerobic capacity, muscular strength and endurance, and flexibility. Also discusses athletic conditioning, e.g. speed and power training. The effects of nutritional and environmental factors on exercise and the role of exercise in weight control and stress management are considered. Recommended:  medical clearance from a personal physician. Breadth-Science.
Intended for students with a potential interest in ergonomics or human  factors. The course surveys the design of work, the workplace environment, information systems, and consumer products. Topics include musculoskeletal disorders, manual materials handling, workplace design, organization of work, design of human/machine interfaces, environmental ergonomics, industrial design, and legal and social issues.  Prerequisite:  Grade 12 Biology or Physics, Grade 12 Math.
Intended for students with a potential interest in ergonomics or human factors. The course surveys the design of work, the workplace environment, information systems, and consumer products. Topics include musculoskeletal disorders, manual materials handling, workplace design, organization of work, design of human/machine interfaces, environmental ergonomics, industrial design, and legal and social issues. Prerequisite: Grade 12 Biology or Physics, Grade 12 Math. Writing.
This course will cover the application of basic mechanics to human movement. It will provide students with a basic understanding of how forces act on body segments and how movements are produced. The subject matter of this course is relevant to quantifying all forms of physical activity, from activities of daily living, physically challenged movement patterns, to elite athletic performance. It also has applications in medical settings, including rehabilitation and sports medicine. Prerequisite: MATH 150, 151 or 154, MATH 152 or 155 (may be taken concurrently), PHYS 101 (or 120 or 125 or 140), KIN 142. Quantitative.
An introductory survey of human physiology with an emphasis on mechanisms of regulation and integration. Anatomy of structures will be detailed only when it is critical to a functional understanding. Although this is intended as a survey course, some topics will be covered in reasonable detail in order to give insight into mechanisms of function. KIN 208 may not be used as a substitute for KIN 205 by students in the Kinesiology Major and Honors programs. Prerequisite: BISC 101, CHEM 281, PHYS 101 and 102. Kinesiology majors and honors students who have taken KIN 105 must also take KIN 205. For students taking both of these courses, credit will only be given for KIN 205.
Students are introduced to basic concepts in human motor systems underlying goal-direction movement. Topics including the problems of planning/control of movements, the role of the nervous system in integrating sensory and motor systems to produce movement, and motor learning are discussed. Taught from a behavioral and neurophysiological perspective and explores psychological influences on motor control. Research from a variety of distinct areas is integrated to provide a coherent picture of our understanding of human motor systems. Prerequisite: KIN 142 or permission of instructor.
An introduction to anatomy and physiological function of the major human systems, from a biomedical engineering perspective. Normally only available to students in the Biomedical Engineering Program. KIN 208 may be used as a substitute for KIN 105 by students in the Kinesiology Minor and Certificate programs. Kinesiology Major and Honors students may not receive credit for KIN 208. No student may take both KIN 105 and KIN 208 for credit, or both KIN 205 and KIN 208 for credit. Prerequisite: CHEM 180.
Examines the relationship between society and the food we eat by evaluating how cultural, social, and economic forces interact to influence health and nutritional status. Attention is given to cultures in British Columbia. Impact of national policies and marketing on food choice are discussed. Prerequisite: KIN 110.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered within the undergraduate course offerings in the School of Kinesiology. Prerequisite to be announced.
Includes delineation of the role of the sports therapist and will study the structural and functional characteristics of the body with regard to the prevention of injury in sport. A first aid approach to athletic injuries will be developed with practical experience in routine treatments. Prerequisite: KIN 142.
A laboratory course on the quantitative biomechanical evaluation of human movement. Students will learn analysis techniques for quantifying kinematics and kinetics of body segments in athletes, normal populations, and special populations during activities such as walking and jumping. Experiments will look at the nature of muscular force generation, and the mechanical impedance properties  of the musculoskeletal system, as well as patterns of muscle activation, using surfance EMG. Prerequisite: PHYS 102 (or 121 or 126 or 141), KIN 201. Quantitative.
A study of human size, shape, proportion, composition, maturation and gross function related to basic concepts of growth, exercise, performance and nutrition. Prerequisite: KIN 105 or 142, and STAT 201 or an equivalent statistics course.
This course covers the evaluation of measurement quality, test construction and assessment, and computer techniques for data capture and signal processing relevant to issues in Kinesiology. Prerequisite statistical knowledge will be put into practice when discussing typical research designs, modeling and hypothesis testing in kinesiology. Prerequisite: KIN 142, 201, 205, and STAT 201. Quantitative.
This course covers the evaluation of measurement quality, test construction and assessment, and computer techniques for data capture and signal processing relevant to issues in Kinesiology. Prerequisite statistical knowledge will be put into practice when discussing typical research designs, modeling and hypothesis testing in Kinesiology. Prerequisite: KIN 142, 201, 205, and STAT 201. Quantitative.
Deals with the physiology and pathophysiology of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems in detail. Prerequisite: KIN 205, MBB 231 (or 201), MATH 155 (or 152). Non-majors require KIN 205 (or BISC 305), MBB 231 (or 201) plus permission of the instructor.
Examines the regulation of body functions with an emphasis on the endocrine, gastrointestinal and neuronal systems. The course focuses on integration of physiological mechanisms at the cellular and organ levels. Examples of abnormal human physiology are used to illustrate important principles. Prerequisite: KIN 201, 205, MBB 231 (or 201), MATH 155 (or 152). Non-majors require KIN 205 (or BISC 305), MBB 231 (or 201) plus permission of the instructor.
Lab exercises will provide a hands-on experience in the acquisition of physiological data and mathematical and computer modeling of physiological systems. Lectures will provide an advanced understanding of select human physiological systems. Prerequisite: KIN 208 or all of KIN 205, KIN 201 and STAT 201 and a strong mathematical background.
The study of human physiological responses and adaptations to acute and chronic exercise/work. Cardiorespiratory, cellular and metabolic adaptations will be studied and discussed in detail. Prerequisite: KIN 205, MBB 201 (or 231).  Recommended: KIN 201.
The principles of nutritional biochemistry are applied to nutrition in life cycle - pregnancy, lactation, infancy, childhood, adolescence and aging. The second part of the course deals with common disease conditions where nutrition plays an important role in prevention or treatment or both. The course is presented in the Canadian context featuring sources of help on Canadian practice, standards and regulations. Prerequisite: KIN 105 or 205 and 110. Students with credit for KIN 220 may not take KIN 311 for further credit.
This course examines the theory and application of nutrition for fitness and sport. Students will study issues around dietary practices commonly promoted for performance enhancement, including mechanisms, effectiveness, risks and regulations. Students will learn skills for critical evaluation of nutrition research and nutrition claims, and will employ these in several small group projects investigating specific nutrition issues and products. Prerequisite: KIN 105 (or 205), and 110.
The factors that determine human nutritional requirements and health under a range of conditions throughout the human life span (pregnancy, lactation, infancy, childhood adolescence, aging) are evaluated. The role of nutrition is evaluated in response to the metabolic and physiologic changes during growth and development versus aging, touching upon eating disorders, depression, osteoporosis, epigenetics, and pharmacology and toxicology of commonly prescribed medications in aging adults. Prerequisite: KIN 105 or 205 and 110. Students with credit for KIN 220 or 311 may not take KIN 313 for further credit.
Principles of nutrition are applied to common disease conditions where nutrition plays an important role in prevention, treatment or both. Nutrition in obesity, diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease are highlighted. The impact of dietary interventions such as DASH and the Diabetes Prevention Program upon chronic disease is evaluated. Pharmacology and toxicology of common medications with regard to alterations in metabolism in disease are discussed, as well as noncompliant and depressed patients. Prerequisite: KIN 105 or 205 and 110. Students with credit for KIN 220 or 311 may not take KIN 314 for further credit.
Pursues a systematic study of human anatomy with emphasis on functional applications. A study of organs and body systems using computer software supported tutorials to provide an understanding of the three dimensional organization of the human body. Participation in all tutorials is required. This course may not be taken for credit by kinesiology majors. Prerequisite: KIN 142, 205 and at least 60 units of undergraduate credit. Students with credit for KIN 325 or 326 may not take KIN 324 for further credit.
For students interested in physical education, health science professions and liberal arts. Brief discussions on applied anatomy, aging, common dysfunctions and diseases enable students to appreciate the relationship between structure and function. Prerequisite: KIN 142 and either KIN 105 (with a grade of C or higher) or KIN 205. Available only through correspondence, this course will not be counted as an upper level optional course for a major in kinesiology. Students with credit for KIN 326 may not take KIN 325 for further credit.
Pursues a systematic study of human anatomy with emphasis on functional applications. A comparative study of organs and body systems using laboratory dissections to provide an understanding of the three dimensional organization of the human body. Participation in all labs is required. Prerequisite: KIN 142, 201, 205 and at least 60 units of undergraduate course credit. Students with credit for KIN 325 may not take KIN 326 for further credit.
Light and electron microscopic study of mammalian tissues and organs with emphasis on human systems. Prerequisite: one of KIN 325, 326, BISC 305, 316.
Relationships among health, physical activity, and other health-associated behaviors are examined. In addition, the theories and models of health behavior, in the context of intervention and promotion strategies, are discussed. Pertinent background information is provided, concerning the influence of fitness on various disease states, as well as the epidemiology of health and exercise behaviors.  Prerequisite: KIN 142, STAT 201 (or PSYC 201). Recommended: KIN 140.
An extension of KIN 143, Exercise Management, this course parallels the on-campus course KIN 343. This course is designed for students completing the health and fitness certificate and/or a kinesiology minor. The goal of the course is to provide students with an opportunity to appreciate principles of exercise leadership, assess individual fitness needs, design programs and monitor effects of prescribed exercise. This course is available only through distance education. Prerequisite: Kin 105 (or 205), 142 and 143. Kinesiology majors and honors students may not receive credit for KIN 342.
An extension of KIN 143, Exercise Management, designed to provide students with an opportunity to appreciate principles of exercise leadership, assess individual fitness needs, design programs and monitor effects of prescribed exercise. The course includes a 34 hour practicum. Prerequisite: KIN 142, 143 and 205; STAT 201 or an equivalent statistics course, KIN 340 (may be taken concurrently). Students with credit for KIN 342 may not take KIN 343 for further credit. Quantitative.
Scientific principles relevant to the design of safe and effective conditioning programs for both the general population and target groups. Students will learn effective training techniques for cardiovascular aerobic conditioning; muscular endurance, strength, and power; anaerobic conditioning, and flexibility. Safety, injury prevention, rehabilitation, reconditioning, and correct weightlifting mechanics will be discussed. Prerequisite: KIN 110, 201, and 343.
The first term of work experience in the Kinesiology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: students must complete Bridging Online (visit www.sfu.ca/coop/bol for further details) at least two terms before their anticipated co-op placement. Students must then apply to the Kinesiology Co-op Program by the first week of the term preceding the work term. Normally, students will have completed a minimum of 45 units by the end of the term of application, KIN 142, plus at least two other kinesiology courses and have a minimum GPA of 2.50. Work terms are graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The second term of work experience in the Kinesiology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: KIN 351. Work terms are graded as pass/fail (P/F).
An examination of phases of skill acquisition, transfer of training, training principles, retention of motor skills, and the influence of motivation, personality and social factors on the acquisition of skill. Prerequisite: KIN 207.
The fundamentals of physiological growth and development from conception to maturity. Topics included form a strong foundation for those interested in designing appropriate activity programs for children of all ages. Prerequisite: KIN 105 or 205, and 142.
This course will teach the principles of biomechanical analysis and their application in the workplace. Topics will include techniques for measurement and analysis of movement; analysis of forces and accelerations in three dimensions; work and power; simple biomechanical and biodynamic models; standards for lifting and carrying, their application and limitations. Prerequisite: KIN 180, 201, 205 and 326 which may be taken concurrently. Quantitative.
The application of psychological principles and methods to the study of human performance at work. A systems approach will be taken to study the interactions among the individual worker, his/her task, groups of workers, and the management structure of the organization. Prerequisite: PSYC 210 or both of KIN 207 and STAT 201. Corequisite: STAT 201 may be taken concurrently. Recommended: KIN 180.
The focus of this course will be the study of the physical environment and its effects on the health, safety and performance of the worker. Physical problems associated with noise, vibration, lighting, radiation, dust and ventilation will be examined together with methods of recognition, treatment, protection and prevention. Prerequisite: KIN 142, 201, 205. Quantitative.
Human information processing and motor control factors are considered as factors relevant to effective, usable human-machine interfaces. A user-centred approach deals with task analysis, context of use, information processing demands, the interface, and the design, assessment and usability of tools, machines and computers. Prerequisite: KIN 180, 201 and 207.
An extension of KIN 201, designed to provide students with an understanding of tissue structure-function relations in health and disease, from a biomechanical perspective. Topics include the effect of disease (and aging) on tissue properties, the mechanics and prevention of tissue injury, and the design of implants and prostheses. While the focus will be primarily on analysis of the musculoskeletal system  at the tissue and whole-body levels, we will also consider biomechanical models of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Prerequisite: KIN 201.
A study of the clinical aspects of exercise physiology by thoroughly examining the relationship between exercise and chronic disease. For each chronic disease state and condition, this course covers its physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacotherapy along with exercise testing, prescription, safety, and programming issues. Prerequisite: KIN 305, 306, 324 or 326, 344.
A study of the clinical aspects of exercise physiology by thoroughly examining the relationship between exercise and chronic disease. For each chronic disease state and condition, this course covers its physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacotherapy along with exercise testing, prescription, safety, and programming issues. Prerequisite: KIN 305, 306, 324 or 326, 344.
Experiments dealing with the nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems are covered. Prerequisite: KIN 305 and 306, one of which must already have been completed and the other can be taken concurrently. Quantitative.
This course entails a detailed analysis of the molecular and cellular basis of cardiac function. The material will be derived from myriad disciplines including: anatomy (histology and ultrastructure), biomechanics, physiology, electrophysiology, biochemistry and molecular biology. A particular emphasis will be placed on the mechanisms by which the heart responds to stresses such as ischemia and exercise. Prerequisite: KIN 305.
An in depth study of the neurophysiology of movement. Illustrates general principles of neural control by exploring specific movement tasks including standing, walking, reaching/grasping, and eye movements. Prerequisite: KIN 306 or BISC 305 and KIN 326.
Control of the human musculoskeletal system examined from the perspective of mechanical impedance. Mechanics of individual muscles, single joints spanned by multiple muscles and multi-joint limb segments are discussed in the context of physical interaction with the environment. Prerequisite: KIN 201 and 306.
Discusses mechanisms of health and disease with respect to a range of molecular mechanisms of physiology and organ system function, including how adipokines have an effect on metabolic alterations in immunology and hormone production in diabetes, stress and cardiovascular disease. Health behavior change in obesity and impact of dietary habits upon hyperlipidemia and apolipoprotein metabolism are addressed in addition to nutritional challenges in weight management and obesity. Prerequisite: KIN 110, 306, 314 (or 311), 340.
Discusses mechanisms of health and disease with respect to a range of molecular mechanisms of physiology and organ system function, including how adipokines have an effect on metabolic alterations in immunology and hormone production in diabetes, stress and cardiovascular disease. Health behavior change in obesity and impact of dietary habits upon hyperlipidemia and apolipoprotein metabolism are addressed in addition to nutritional challenges in weight management and obesity. Prerequisite:    KIN 110, 306, 314 (or 311), 340.   Writing.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered as formal courses within the undergraduate course offerings in the School of Kinesiology. The topics in this course will vary from term to term, depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Undergraduate Schedule of Classes and Examinations.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered as formal courses within the undergraduate course offerings in the School of Kinesiology. The topics in this course will vary from term to term, depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: to be announced.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered as formal courses within the undergraduate course offerings in the School of Kinesiology. The topics in this course will vary from term to term, depending on faculty availability and student interest.  Prerequisite: To be announced.
Selected topics in areas not currently offered as formal courses within the undergraduate course offerings in the School of Kinesiology. The topics in this course will vary from term to term, depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: to be announced in the Undergraduate Schedule of Classes and Examinations.
This course explores human neuromuscular anatomy using a lecture format supplemented by course readings, an anatomy atlas and tutorials which are presented in an interactive fashion via the Macintosh Computer Laboratory on campus. A strong grounding will be given in neuroanatomy with additional emphasis on the limb musculature and its innervation. Prerequisite: KIN 324 or KIN 325 or KIN 326. Students with credit for KIN 422 may not complete this course for further credit.
Pathways of energy flow in animals and man, and the relationship of biological energy transduction to the needs of the whole animal. Quantitative aspects of bioenergetics and adaptation to changes in energy supply and demand. Measuring techniques applied to adaptations to muscle activity and variations in food intake. Prerequisite: KIN 306 or 310 or MBB 321 (or BICH 321).
Core concepts in cancer biology ranging from the clinical and pathological basis of carcinogenesis to the molecular and cellular changes involved in cancer development. Emphasis will be on the complex interactions of lifestyle factors, genetics and social cultural determinants on cancer risk. Prerequisite:    MBB 231 (or MBB 201) and at least 90 units.  Students with credit for KIN 420 may not complete this course for further credit.
Concepts and tools of systems analysis will be introduced. Since these involve a philosophy of problem-solving rather than a catalogue of techniques, they will be applied to a number of very different problems in biomedicine and kinesiology. Prerequisite: KIN 305 and 306.
Examines the etiology, prevention, and rehabilitation of cardiovascular disease. Involves the assessment of patient risk factors, and non-invasive cardiovascular assessments. Particular emphasis will be placed upon the recording and interpretation of the electrocardiogram in health and disease. Prerequisite: KIN 305. Recommended: KIN 110, 306, 310 and 343.
Builds upon the knowledge and skills learned in KIN 444 through advanced ECG interpretation, exercise stress testing, and patient counseling. Students will be required to complete a 30 hour practicum within a community or hospital-based cardiac rehabilitation program. In addition, this course will introduce students to relevant research questions in cardiac rehabilitation and how this field is expanding and evolving.  Prerequisite: KIN 444.
Examines neural and neuromuscular diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, stroke, and myasthenia gravis. Emphasizes currently favoured hypotheses, underlying evidence and pathogenic mechanisms. Prerequisite: KIN 306. Recommended: KIN 336 and/or KIN 415.
This course is aimed at students interested in neuromuscular rehabilitation. Students will learn about the pathological origins of movement disorders associated with impaired function of sensory and motor systems. The course will be focused on the stages and strategies for recovery of voluntary control of essential functions. The range of rehabilitation interventions available to assist recovery and restore voluntary control will be explored, with special emphasis on advanced techniques to restore control of movement and bodily functions in paralyzed people. Prerequisite: KIN 201, 207 and 306, or for biomedical engineering students, KIN 201, 208 and 308.
The third term of work experience for students in the Kinesiology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: KIN 352. Work terms are graded as pass/fail (P/F).
The fourth term of work  experience for students in the Kinesiology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: KIN 451. Work terms are graded as pass/fail (P/F).
Optional term of work experience for students in the Kinesiology Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: KIN 452. Work terms are graded as pass/fail (P/F).
Directed study and research leading to an Honors thesis proposal (KIN459/PSYC 459). Prerequisite: 90 units, including PSYC 301 with a minimum grade of B and permission of the Chair of the Behavioral Neuroscience Coordinating Committee. This course is identical to PSYC 457 and students may not take both courses for credit.
A written thesis based on research previously proposed in KIN 457/PSYC 457. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of B in KIN 457/PSYC 457. This course is identical to PSYC 459 and students may not take both courses for credit. Corequisite: must be enrolled in the Honors Program of the B.Sc. in Behavioral Neuroscience.
Designed for those who require a serious but fairly broad discussion of specific physiological aspects of aging. The overall emphasis is on humans and other mammalian species and the varieties of aging changes they manifest. Prerequisite: KIN 105 or 205, 142 and 90 units.
The advanced study of human motor control, primarily from a behavioral perspective. Course content will include sections on: Bernstein's approach to the problem of co-ordination and action, theories of action, studies of relatively recent empirical work in support of the theories. Prerequisite: KIN 205 and 207 or permission of instructor.
Considers the prevalence, distribution, risk factors, mechanisms, management and prevention of disorders of muscle, connective tissue, joint, and bone. Covers tendonitis, bursitis, carpal tunnel syndrome and other overuse injuries from work and sport; whiplash-associated disorders; arthritis; osteoporosis; chronic pain; fibromyalgia. Prerequisite: KIN 201 and 326.
The theme of this course is human physiology in environments of decreased atmospheric pressure, high G-force, and weightlessness. The course will deal with acute and chronic adaptations to these environments as well as life support systems and 'countermeasures' developed to expand the envelope of human performance. Developments of breathing apparatus and G-suits for high performance aircraft will be examined as they relate to solving the physiological problems of exposure to these environments. Effects of short and extended periods of weightlessness on cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, musculo-skeletal, neural, hormonal and vestibular systems will be explored. Prerequisite: KIN 305, 306. Recommended: KIN 407. Quantitative.
The physiological effects of pressure on the human body and interfacing of humans and machine underwater are considered. Topics include the history of diving, decompression theory, decompression disorders, pulmonary function, underwater work, underwater breathing apparatus, narcosis, saturation diving, high pressure nervous syndrome, and atmospheric diving suits. Prerequisite: KIN 305. Quantitative.
Covers the role of human factors in the design process. Explains how human factors/ergonomics knowledge is incorporated into the design process in order to improve safety, comfort, usability and efficiency for consumer products and products used in the workplace. Biomechanical principles, concepts from human-computer interaction and basic ergonomics/human factors principles will be applied. An applied project will be undertaken by groups of students and will form a significant part of the course. This course is designed for students who are following the human factors/ergonomics stream of the undergraduate program. Prerequisite: KIN 180 and KIN 380 or 383.
A project based laboratory course that applies theoretical knowledge to industrial situations. Instruction will be provided in proposal development, evaluation techniques, and report writing. Students will complete projects in human-machine interaction, occupational ergonomics, and industrial design. Prerequisite: KIN 180W and KIN 380 plus any two of the following: KIN 381, 382, 481, IAT 333, IAT 334, IAT 432, or KIN 496*, 498*, 497* (*if ergonomics related).
Directed reading and literature research on topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. This course may not be repeated for additional credit. A short proposal of the project, approved by  the course supervisor, must be submitted for approval to the chair of the undergraduate program committee by the end of the first week of classes of the term. Prerequisite: permission from the chair of the undergraduate program committee. Usually, upper level standing with at least 75 units in the kinesiology program will be required. Honors students may count only one of either KIN 496 or KIN 498 towards their 27 upper division Kinesiology elective units.
Supervised directed study and research leading to the development of a formal undergraduate thesis proposal for work to be conducted in KIN 499. The activity in KIN 497 may be augmented by other course work and a pilot study. In cases where an industrial/community partner is involved in the development of a project, the work need not be conducted at Simon Fraser University and may be completed external to Simon Fraser University. Supervision of KIN 497 will be conducted by a suitable faculty member, but may be co-supervised by an industrial/community partner. Supervisor(s) must be approved by the undergraduate program committee. The plan of activities for each KIN 497 should be submitted to the chair of the undergraduate program committee for approval one month prior to the term in which the course will be taken. Prerequisite: only students in the honors program may enrol for KIN 497; 90 units, STAT 201, and permission of the chair of the undergraduate program committee.
Directed study and research selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. A short proposal of the project approved by the course supervisor, must be submitted for approval to the chair of the undergraduate program committee by the end of the first week of classes of the term. Prerequisite: STAT 201 and permission from the chair of the undergraduate program committee. Usually, upper level standing with at least 75 units in the kinesiology program will be required. Honors students may count only one of either KIN 496 or KIN 498 towards their 27 upper division kinesiology elective units.
A thesis based on research previously proposed in KIN 497. Formal approval of the research topic is given by attaining a minimum grade of B in KIN 497. Regulations regarding the locale of the work, supervision and other arrangements, follow those for KIN 497. The written thesis should be submitted to the chair of the undergraduate program committee by the last day of exams of the term. The thesis will also be presented orally as a seminar in an open forum at the end of the term. Prerequisite: KIN 497. Only students in the honors program may enrol for KIN 499. A student may enrol for one other course concurrently with KIN 499 with permission from the faculty supervisor for KIN 499.
Required of all graduate students entering kinesiology. Students will gain perspective on how their research fits into the overall spectrum of departmental research. Presentations will be given by faculty and students, to be followed by seminar discussions. Students will be exposed to techniques available in the school, their strengths and weaknesses, what data the techniques yield, and how the scientific method is applied in interpreting the data. Students will learn how to give oral, poster, and web-based presentations, and how to facilitate discussions. Students with credit for this course when taught as KIN 808 may not take KIN 801 for additional credit.
A lecture-lab structured course, with one lecture per week and numerous non-scheduled lab assignments. Mini-exams are held every three weeks to monitor students' progress and assist students in keeping up with course materials. It will review fundamentals of descriptive statistics and hypothesis-testing. The remainder of the course will concentrate on analysis of variance and co-variance and an overview of correlation and regression. Students with credit for this course when taught as KIN 807 may not take KIN 802 for additional credit.
Required for MSc (course work) students only. The course provides an opportunity for concentrated research in a focused area with a faculty supervisor resulting in a research paper or experimental report.
An opportunity to develop with a faculty supervisor considerable depth of knowledge and expertise in a focused area of study. Normally, KIN 805 may not be taken for credit more than once and may not be taken for credit by MSc (course work) students.
Special topics in areas not currently covered within the graduate program offerings. The course may be offered as a lecture, seminar course or a distance education course.
Special topics in areas not currently covered within the graduate program  offerings. The course may be offered as a lecture or a seminar course.
Special topics in areas not currently covered within the graduate program offerings. The course may be offered as a lecture or a seminar course.
MSc Course Work students who do not complete KIN 804 in one term must register in this course in all subsequent terms until the project is completed. No additional credit will be given for this course.
Recent developments in the application of molecular biology, biochemistry and cell biology to study muscle function during exercise. Topics will include muscle-specific gene expression, energy metabolism and its control, biochemical plasticity of muscle, hypertrophy and signal transduction.
No description available
This course involves biochemical and biophysical analyses of cardiac function. Topics for discussion include excitation, contraction, E-C coupling and the regulation of pHi. Prerequisite: introductory biochemistry and biophysics.
Review course covering aspects of cardiovascular and respiratory physiology and discussion of environmental physiology topics such as hypoxia.
Selected aspects of research and theory in the behavioural neurosciences. The focus will be on delineating the problems of developing viable theories of motor learning and action, and on seeking solutions to those problems. The course also includes sections on information processing and co-ordination of complex movement.
The study of selected aspects of research in motor behavior. The focus will be on delineating the problems of a viable theory of action, and on seeking solutions to the problems. Prerequisite: KIN 467, or equivalent.
Provides a detailed understanding of physiological and behavioral mechanisms underlying temperature regulation in humans and other animals. Thermoregulation will be studied during acute and chronic exposure to hot and cold environments, from the cellular to whole body level. The course will examine the relationship between thermoregulatory and other physiological systems (respiratory, muscular, cardiovascular, neural).
This course is designed for graduate Biomedical Physiology & Kinesiology and Biomedical Engineering students interested in advanced treatment and rehabilitation methods for neurological and neuromuscular disorders that cause paralysis, sensory deficits, disordered voluntary control and/or chronic pain.
Review the theoretical basis and tools of biomechanics and to examine how biomechanics research can contribute to our understanding of the cause, prevention and treatment of disease and injury and how biomechanics relates to neural control of movement. Topics will include static equilibrium, equations of motion, stability, inverse and forward dynamics, vibration and impact, mechanical properties of tissues, muscle models, feedback and feedforward control, impedance control and internal dynamics models.
Biomolecular interactions exert or initiate substantive control thereby integrating cellular and physiological function. Defects in these biomolecular interactions frequently lead to altered control systems or responses of these systems in various disease states. Topics may include mechanisms of hormone action, cellular transport and signaling, immunoregulation, nutrition and metabolic control.
This class will integrate current knowledge on the process of carcinogenesis in tissues in which cancer commonly occurs in North America. Discussions will focus on new techniques being developed to identify individuals at risk for cancer and new approaches being used to intervene to prevent development of the disease. Prerequisite: KIN 431.
Topics include the physiology of walking, cerebral and cerebella cortical physiology, the generation of repetitive neural discharges, as well as hormonal control of neuron behaviour. The emphasis will be a broad introduction to neuroscience, as well as some neuroscience research methods and applications.
The course covers the peripheral nervous system including reflexes and spinal cord organization in detail. This prepares the student with a thorough understanding of general functioning of the nervous system. In addition, the course covers the neurophysiology of the cerebellum, motor cortex, basal ganglia, vestibular system and other related structures involved in central control of movement. Laboratory demonstrations are part of the course.
Lectures, experiments, mathematical modeling and reviews of original research literature will provide an advanced understanding of select human physiological systems. Students will get hands-on experience in the acquisition of physiological data and with the mathematical and computer modeling of physiological systems.
To relate the laws of mechanics to the function and structure of tissues and systems of the human body. Emphasis will be in relation to internal events occurring in normal and abnormal human states. Prerequisite: KIN 402.
A study of the principles involved in integrating human capabilities into complex machine systems.
The application of engineering principles to the study of normal and abnormal human function.
No description available
No description available
The acquisition of introductory language skills in a world language not separately designated in the Calendar. The specific course number and units assigned will vary with the language studied as well as the focus and method of instruction. Variable units: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Continuation of HUM 152 Ancient Greek II. Focuses on reading Ancient Greek at an intermediate level. Prerequisite: HUM 152 or permission of the instructor. Students who have taken LANG 220 Intermediate Ancient Greek may not take this course for further credit.
Continues the work of LANG 220 Ancient Greek III, focuses on reading Ancient Greek at an intermediate level. Prerequisite: LANG 220 Ancient Greek III. Students who have taken LANG 270 Intermediate Ancient Greek II may not take this course for further credit.
A multidisciplinary introduction to contemporary Latin America. The course is organized in three modules: people and the land, the human condition, and the political alternatives, each of which will be examined from the varying perspectives of history, geography, politics, the arts, etc. Students who have taken LAS 200 as Introduction to Latin American Development Studies, or LAS 200 Introduction to Latin American Issues, may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A study in English of significant contributions to Latin American literature. Breadth-Humanities.
A cross-disciplinary focus on specific elements of contemporary Latin American culture. Topics such as indigenism, Afro-Latin culture, religion, literature, and folklore will be studied. Prerequisite: LAS 140 or 200.
A multidisciplinary study of a selected country or region. This course will normally be part of the LAS Field School in Latin America, and will be conducted in co-operation with local lecturers from the host country. Prerequisite: LAS 200.
This course will be part of the LAS field school in Latin America. The selected region will be examined on site from a multidisciplinary perspective. Prerequisite: LAS 200 or permission of the department.
Latin America produced much of the truly significant literature of the 20th century, and has been the centre of post-colonial literary forms and the birthplace of magical realism. Pablo Neruda, Jorge Luis Borges, Octavio Paz, Carlos Fuentes, Gariela Mistral, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and Mario Vargas Llosa are some of the authors we will examine. Pre-requisites: This course is identical to WL 410 and students may not take both courses for credit. Completion of 60 units of 300 or 400 level courses.
Provides opportunity for individual reading and research under the supervision of a faculty member. Prerequisite: 90 units including LAS 200 and permission of the program advisor.
Independent reading and research under the supervision of a LAS associated faculty member. A research term paper will be required as the culmination of a LAS joint major. Prerequisite: 90 units, including LAS 200 and permission of the program advisor. Students who have taken LAS 498 prior to Fall 2006 may take this course for further credit.
Provides an introduction to choosing a methodological framework for conducting the MA research project. Topics include epistemology of the human sciences, social research design and a review to qualitative, quantitative and mixed research methods. Students will gain experience in writing research proposals for external funding early in the term.
A synthetic introduction to historical and contemporary theories of development in Latin America. Topics include political economy of development, sociological theories of development, an introduction to neoliberalism, and the contemporary experience of globalization and development in Latin America.
No description available
A general overview of social and political change in Latin America, including revolutions, independence, transition to democracy, and contemporary social movements. Theoretical approaches may include social-movement theory, democratic theory, etc.
Directed readings in a selected field of study under the direction of a single faculty member. An annotated bibliography and a term paper is required.
No description available
First term of work experience in the Liberal Arts Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser Universitiy degree. Prerequisite: at least 30 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0, including ENGL 099 and PHIL 001. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Second term of work experience in the Liberal Arts Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of Liberal Arts 101 and at least 45 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Third term of work experience in the Liberal Arts Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of LBRL 201 and at least 60 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Fourth term of work experience in the Liberal Arts Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of LBRL 301 and at least 75 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
Optional fifth term of work experience in the Liberal Arts Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of LBRL 401 and at least 90 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinators by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
First term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
Second term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
Third (optional) term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
Introduction to key concepts necessary for understanding the character and organization of work in contemporary society. The discussion of such issues as how our society decides who works, what the work will be, and under what conditions people work, will be situated in the context of current debates, trend and issues.
This course will give students a comprehensive understanding of the contemporary structure, issues, and perceptions of labor unions and other forms of working-class organization. It will focus on external and internal problems that the labor movement faces, such as labor law and state policy, employer strategies, bureaucracy, racism and sexism. The treatment of labor in the media and popular culture will provide an understanding of how labor is viewed in society, how labor views itself, and how working-class culture informs and is informed by the larger culture. Recommended: LBST 101.
Technological change and globalization are constantly transforming the nature of work. These transformations are examined in the historical development of work, with specific emphasis on the chaining nature of the labour process in the present era. Prerequisite:    Strongly recommended: LBST 101 and/or 301.
The study of issues related to work and/or trade unions not offered in regular courses. Prerequisite:    Strongly recommended: LBST 101 and/or 301.  Students who have completed special temporary topics course LBST 389 cannot complete this course for further credit when it is offered as "Studying Labour Through Film."
A non-theoretical approach to the study of language using examples from a variety of languages. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Study of the structure of words, the change of meaning of words, the change in form of words. Examples from English, French and other languages. A general interest course open to all students. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to language in its social and cultural dimensions. Students who have taken LING 260 prior to Fall 2008 may not take LING 160 for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A practical overview of English grammar based on linguistic principles, for those designing basic knowledge of language structure, grammatical categories and grammatical analysis. This course is particularly suited for students interested in the teaching of English as a second language.
An introduction to linguistic analysis. Breadth-Social Sciences.
The principles of phonetic and phonological analysis. Prerequisite: LING 220.
The principles of syntactic analysis. Prerequisite: LING 220.
Introduces the scientific study of speech, focusing on the mechanisms of speech production and perception, the ways in which speech is described and analyzed, the relationship between speech and technology, and the practical applications of phonetic science. Students who have taken LING 480 or 481 with similar content may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sci/Science.
An examination of how language is used by law enforcement, the courts, government, and the legal profession. Particular attention is paid to the contributions of linguistic science to a proper understanding of the role and usage of language in the legal domain.
Advanced study of the styles of written argumentation that are used in linguistic research. Prerequisite: LING 222.  Recommended: A lower division writing intensive (W) course. Writing.
A systematic approach to the study of linguistic variation in different areal, social, and cultural settings. Prerequisite: LING 220. Recommended: LING 160 or 260. Students who have taken LING 409 may not take this course for further credit. Writing.
An overview of theoretical principles in phonology. Prerequisite: LING 221.
The study of sentence structure in language through a survey of constructions found in natural language data together with a consideration of syntactic theory. Prerequisite: LING 222.
Word structure in natural languages and its relationship to phonological and syntactic levels of grammar. Prerequisite: LING 221, 222; or 310.
Basic formal aspects of meaning (e.g. compositional semantics, truth conditional semantics and quantification in natural language) and how they are distinguished from pragmatic aspects of meaning. Prerequisite: LING 222. Quantitative.
A survey of methods of speech sound description and transcription. Prerequisite: LING 221.
Introduction to the study of language acquisition from the point of view of linguistic structure. Prerequisite: LING 221. Students who have taken LING 250 may not take this course for further credit.
Theoretical and practical aspects of second language learning. Prerequisite: LING 220.
Application of linguistic principles to the teaching of English as a second language. Prerequisite: LING 221.
Implementation of linguistic principles in the teaching of English as a second language, including a practical experience with learners of English. Prerequisite: LING 360, 362. This course is graded on a pass/fail basis.
First semester of work experience in the Linguistics Co-operative Education Program. Credits from this course do not count towards the credits required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: normally 30 units, including LING 220 and four other courses in Linguistics, with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Second term of work experience in the Linguistics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of LING 370 and 45 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Formal systems and their relation to linguistic methods and theory. Topics include the mathematical properties of natural languages, and rigorously defined frameworks for linguistic analysis and their formal properties. Prerequisite: LING 322. Recommended: PHIL 210 Quantitative.
Advanced training in speech sound description and analysis in the impressionistic and instrumental modes. Prerequisite: LING 330.
The development of languages and language families through time; genetic grouping, the comparative method, reconstruction, etymology, universals and language change. Prerequisite: LING 321, 322 and 323, plus LING 301.
The investigation and description of an unfamiliar language. Prerequisite: LING 221 and 222.
Explores the range of theories that are used within applied linguistics, including issues of theory evaluation and application. Prerequisite: LING 360 and 9 units of upper division Linguistics. Students who have taken LING 480 or LING 481 with this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Application of principles from phonetics to a number of practical problems in such areas as second language learning and teaching, forensics, communications, commerce and the arts. Prerequisite: LING 321 or 330, and 9 additional units of upper division Linguistics. Students who have taken LING 480 or LING 481 with this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Explores language as a system of the human brain, including specific topics such as the neuroanatomy and neurophysiology of language; language production, perception and processing; bilingualism, language learning and brain plasticity; and aphasia, dyslexia, deafness and sign languages. Prerequisite: 12 units of upper division linguistic courses. Students who have taken LING 480 with this topic may not take this course for further credit.
Structural and genetic characteristics of Native languages of America, with special emphasis on languages of the Northwest. Detailed examination of one language or language family. Prerequisite: 12 upper division linguistics units. Recommended: LING 241 and 323.
Detailed examination of the structure of a selected language. Prerequisite: LING 221 and 222.
Detailed examination of the structure of a selected language. Prerequisite: LING 221 and 222.
A survey of the main language types found in the world with reference to their structural properties; the categorization of language types as a consequence of linguistic universals. Prerequisite: Two of LING 321, 322 or 323. Recommended: LING 241.
Third term of work experience in the Linguistics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser Universitiy degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of LING 371 and 60 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Fourth term of work experience in the Linguistics Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: successful completion of LING 470 and 75 units with a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Investigation of a selected area of linguistic research. Prerequisite: Requirements will vary according to the topic offered.
Investigation of a selected area of linguistic research. Prerequisite: Requirements will vary according to the topic offered.
Investigation of a selected area of linguistic research. The course will be writing-intensive. Prerequisite: requirements will vary according to the topic offered. Writing.
Topic of a specific nature to be agreed upon by the student and a particular faculty member. Prerequisite: a minimum of 33 units of upper division linguistic courses counting toward the honors degree.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
The first of two core courses that constitute an extended examination of the tension between reason and passion in human experience. This course will emphasize close reading and discussion of works, drawn from different cultures and epochs, that reflect on human passion.
The second of two core courses that constitute an extended examination of the tension between reason and passion in human experience. This course will examine writings by some who have insisted on the indispensability of reasoning as a guide to action and the source of truth, as well as writings by some of those who on various grounds have cast doubt on this faith in human reason.
This course will examine some aspects of the relationship between selfhood, as idea and experience, and social organization. Approaches to the topic will vary, but may involve scientific, social scientific, philosophical and aesthetic perspectives.
This course will examine ways in which ideas of tradition and traditional societies conflict with forces of modernization and ideas of modernity.
This course will deal with issues surrounding the nature of the scientific attitude, the growth of scientific knowledge and the impact of scientific and technological change. Specific attention will be given to the value implications of science and technology in relation to other forms of human understanding and experience.
This course will deal with the conflicts and continuities of secular and religious approaches to such fundamental issues as the origins of the universe and of the human species, human virtue, and human destiny.
This course will examine the tension between liberty and authority as expressed in some of the following: political and judicial ideas and systems; conflicting economic ideologies; personal relationships.
This course will examine how distinctions among people create pattern and conflict, by studying some of the fundamental organizing concepts of society which both unite and divide people.
This course provides an opportunity for the occasional offering of a seminar course appropriate to the program but on a topic outside the regular courses.
This course provides an opportunity for individual study on a topic of the student's choice, under the guidance of one or more faculty. Arrangements for this course must be approved by the graduate chair in advance of enrolment.
The final seminar for those students in the graduate liberal studies program pursuing the course option MA. The seminar will revisit the themes raised in the two opening core seminars (LS 800 and 801).
No description available
No description available
Students will present two of their essays for formal examination in order to satisfy the Simon Fraser University requirements for a master's degree.
This course is for students choosing to satisfy part of the requirements for an MA in liberal studies by presenting a project for formal examination.
Introduction to counting, induction, automata theory, formal reasoning, modular arithmetic. Prerequisite: BC high school mathematics 12. Entry into this course is obtained through the School of Computing Science. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A continuation of MACM 101. Topics covered include graph theory, trees, inclusion-exclusion, generating functions, recurrence relations, and optimization and matching. Prerequisite: MACM 101. Quantitative.
A variety of continuous and discrete models such as difference equations, differential equations, networks, cellular automata, and fractals are introduced. Students will develop mathematical models for physical phenomena, and use the computer to simulate and analyze the models. A mathematical software package, such as Maple or Matlab, will be extensively used in a laboratory setting. Prerequisite: MATH 152 (or MATH 155 or 158), and CMPT 125 (or CMPT 101 or 104 or 126) and MATH 240 or 232 (co-requisite). Quantitative.
Development of computer models that analyze and illustrate applications of linear algebra. Topics include: large-scale matrix calculations, experiments with cellular automata, population models, data fitting and optimization, image analysis. Prerequisite: one of CMPT 125, 126 or 128 and one of MATH 150, 151, 154, or 157. Students in excess of 75 units may not take MACM 203 for further credit. MATH 232 or 240 (can be taken as corequisite). Quantitative.
Development of computer models that analyze and illustrate applications of multi-variable calculus. Topics include: 3D visualization of curves and surfaces, disease spread models, multi-dimensional optimization and probability models. Prerequisite: one of CMPT 125, 126 or 128. Students in excess of 75 units may not take MACM 204 for further credit. MATH 251 (can be taken as a corequisite). Quantitative.
Languages, grammars, automata and their applications to natural and formal language processing. Prerequisite: MACM 201. Quantitative.
A presentation of the problems commonly arising in numerical analysis and scientific computing and the basic methods for their solutions. Prerequisite: MATH 152 or 155 or 158, and MATH 232 or 240, and computing experience. Quantitative.
A first course in computer algebra  also called symbolic computation. It covers data-structures and algorithms for mathematical objects, including polynomials, general mathematical formulae, long integer arithmetic, polynomial greatest common divisors, the Risch integration algorithm. Other topics include symbolic differentiation, simplification of formulae, and polynomial factorization. Students will learn Maple for use on assignments. Prerequisite: CMPT 307 or MATH 332 or MATH 340. Quantitative.
Development of numerical methods for solving linear algebra problems at the heart of many scientific computing problems. Mathematical foundations for the use, implementation and analysis of the algorithms used for solving many optimization problems and differential equations. Prerequisite: MATH 251, MACM 316, programming experience. Quantitative.
The numerical solution of ordinary differential equations and elliptic, hyperbolic and parabolic partial differential equations will be considered. Prerequisite: MATH 310 and MACM 316. Quantitative.
An introduction to the subject of modern cryptography. Classical methods for cryptography and how to break them, the data encryption standard (DES), the advanced encryption standard (AES), the RSA and ElGammal public key cryptosystems, digital signatures, secure hash functions and pseudo-random number generation. Algorithms for computing with long integers including the use of probabilistic algorithms. Prerequisite: CMPT 201 or 225, and one of MATH 340 or 332 or 342;  or CMPT 405. Cannot be repeated if taken MACM 498 1037-1061. Quantitative.
Topics will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: will be specified according to the particular topics offered under this course number.
A course of directed studies under the supervision of a member of faculty. The study will involve a research project approved by the supervisor in the field of interest of the student, and will be designed to take maximum advantage of the laboratory and/or field opportunities offered by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre.
A course of directed studies under the supervision of a member of faculty. The study will involve a research project approved by the supervisor in the field of interest of the student, and will be designed to take maximum advantage of the laboratory and field opportunities offered by the Marine Sciences Centre. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
A survey of the marine phyla, with emphasis on the benthic fauna in the vicinity of the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre. The course includes lectures, laboratory periods, field collection, identification, and observation. Emphasis is placed on the study of living specimens in the laboratory and in the field. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
A comprehensive study of development of marine invertebrates available at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre including all major phyla and most of the minor phyla. Lectures will cover gametogenesis, fertilization, regeneration, cell lineage, mosaic and regulated development, larval development and metamorphosis of the different groups. Laboratory work will include methods and techniques of obtaining and handling gametes, preparation and maintenance of larval cultures and observation of development up to metamorphosis if possible. Some selected and clearly defined classical experiments will be performed. Efforts will also be made to study various pelagic larvae. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
Classification, physiology, ecology, behavior and zoogeography of fishes with particular emphasis on those in the marine environment of the British Columbia coast. Local collections from a variety of habitats will be used for experimental studies. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
The course will focus on the structure of marine animals and their adaptations to the marine environment. Neurobiology, developmental biology, functional morphology and other topics will be covered. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
The course will explore morphological physiological, genetic and reproductive adaptations of seaweeds to their natural and man-altered environments. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
An analytical approach to biotic associations in the marine environment. Opportunities will be provided for study of the intertidal realm in exposed and protected areas and of beaches and estuaries in the vicinity of the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre; plankton studies and investigations of the sub-tidal and benthic environments by diving and dredging are envisaged. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
An analytical approach to the study of marine ecology and marine populations. Intertidal and subtidal communities will be examined, with emphasis on the biota of the Barkley Sound region. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
The interrelationship of birds and the marine environment. Lectures will emphasize the systematics and ecological relationships, behavior, life histories, movements and conservation of marine birds. Census techniques and methods of studying marine birds in the field will be stressed during field trips in the Barkley Sound region. Seabird identification, classification, morphology, plumages and molt will be examined in the laboratory. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
A survey course covering systematics and distribution of marine mammals, their sensory capabilities and physiology, with special emphasis on the cetacea. The course includes lectures, laboratory periods and numerous field trips in the Barkley Sound region. The course will involve an independent field study. Prerequisite: offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
A comparative study of marine animals (vertebrate and invertebrate) emphasizing behavioral description, underlying physiological mechanisms, the biological significance of behavior and behavioral evolution. The course will include independent laboratory and field studies. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Course will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Station and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: Will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Station and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Station and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Station and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: Will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
Offered, as opportunities arise, by visiting scientists who are working at the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course of either three or six weeks. Courses will be of a specialized nature. Prerequisite: will vary and will be announced in advance of the course offering. Variable units 3, 6.
A series of weekly seminars covering current topics of interest in the Marine Sciences. Seminars will be presented Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre researchers, graduate students and visiting scientists as well as by the students themselves. Prerequisite: Offerings of the MASC courses may vary from summer to summer because instructors are drawn from different universities. For that reason, prerequisites may vary slightly. In general, upper division standing in biology is required, and admission is usually competitive. Students are encouraged to consult the brochure published each fall by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre for full and specific details. The brochure will be available from the Department of Biological Sciences.
A graduate level course of directed studies under the supervision of a member of faculty. The study will involve a research project approved by the supervisor in the field of interest of the student, and will be designed to take maximum advantage of the laboratory and/or field opportunities offered by the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre.
Course offered, as opportunities arise, by distinguished scientists who are visiting the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course extending over a three week period.
Course offered, as opportunities arise, by distinguished scientists who are visiting the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course extending over a three week period.
Courses offered, as opportunities arise, by distinguished scientists who are visiting the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course extending over a three week period.
Course offered, as opportunities arise, by distinguished scientists who are visiting the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course extending over a six week period.
Courses offered, as opportunities arise, by distinguished scientists who are visiting the Bamfield Marine Station and are prepared to offer a course extending over a six week period.
Course offered, as opportunities arise, by distinguished scientists who are visiting the Bamfield Marine Sciences Centre and are prepared to offer a course extending over a six week period.
Designed to prepare students for first year Calculus courses. Topics include language and notation of mathematics; problem solving; algebraic, exponential, logarithmic and trigonometric functions and their graphs. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 11 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B-, or BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least C and SFU FAN credit, or SFU FAN X99 course with a grade of at least B-, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Quantitative Placement Test. Students with credit for MATH 150 or 151 or 154 or 157 may not take MATH 100 for further credit. MATH 100 may not be counted towards the mathematics minor, major or honors degree requirements. Quantitative.
Plane Euclidean geometry, congruence and similarity. Theory of parallels. Polygonal areas. Pythagorean theorem. Geometrical constructions. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 11 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B- or SFU FAN X99 with a grade of at least C, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Quantitative Placement Test. Intended to be accessible to students who are not specializing in mathematics. Particularly recommended for students considering a career in teaching secondary or middle school mathematics. Quantitative.
An introductory course in the application of geometry and linear algebra principles to computer graphical representation.  Vector and matrix algebra, two and three dimensional transformations, homogeneous coordinates, perspective geometry. Prerequisite: Principles of Mathematics 12 or Applications of Mathematics 12, both with a grade of at least B, or MATH 100 with a grade of at least C and SFU FAN credit. Quantitative.
Designed for students specializing in mathematics, physics, chemistry, computing science and engineering. Topics as for Math 151 with a more extensive review of functions, their properties and their graphs. Recommended for students with no previous knowledge of Calculus. In addition to regularly scheduled lectures, students enrolled in this course are encouraged to come for assistance to the Calculus Workshop (Burnaby), or Math Open Lab (Surrey). Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B+ (75%); or MATH 100 with a grade of at least B-, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Calculus Readiness Test. Students with credit for either MATH 151, 154 or 157 may not take MATH 150 for further credit. Quantitative.
Designed for students specializing in mathematics, physics, chemistry, computing science and engineering. Logarithmic and exponential functions, trigonometric functions, inverse functions. Limits, continuity, and derivatives. Techniques of differentiation, including logarithmic and implicit differentiation. The Mean Value Theorem. Applications of Differentiation including extrema, curve sketching, related rates, Newton's method. Antiderivatives and applications. Conic sections, polar coordinates, parametric curves. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least A, or MATH 100 with a grade of at least B, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Calculus Readiness Test. Students with credit for either MATH 150, 154 or 157 may not take MATH 151 for further credit. Quantitative.
Riemann sum, Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, definite, indefinite and improper integrals, approximate integration, integration techniques, applications of integration. First-order separable differential equations. Sequences and series, series tests, power series, convergence and applications of power series. Prerequisite: MATH 150 or 151; or MATH 154 or 157 with a grade of at least B. Students with credit for MATH 155 or 158 may not take MATH 152 for further credit. Quantitative.
Designed for students specializing in the biological and medical sciences. Topics include: limits, growth rate and the derivative; elementary functions, optimization and approximation methods, and their applications; mathematical models of biological processes. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B; or MATH 100 with a grade of at least C, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Calculus Readiness Test.  Students with credit for either MATH 150, 151 or 157 may not take MATH 154 for further credit. Quantitative.
Designed for students specializing in the biological and medical sciences. Topics include: the integral, partial derivatives, differential equations, linear systems, and their applications; mathematical models of biological processes. Prerequisite: MATH 150, 151 or 154; or MATH 157 with a grade of at least  B. Students with credit for MATH 152 or 158 may not take MATH 155 for further credit. Quantitative.
Designed for students specializing in business or the social sciences. Topics include: limits, growth rate and the derivative; logarithmic exponential and trigonometric functions and their application to business, economics, optimization and approximation methods; functions of several variables. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B; or MATH 100 with a grade of at least C, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Calculus Readiness Test. Students with credit for either MATH 150,  151 or 154 may not take MATH 157 for further credit. Quantitative.
Theory of integration and its applications; introduction to multivariable calculus with emphasis on partial derivatives and their applications; introduction to differential equations with emphasis on some special first-order equations and their applications to economics and social sciences; continuous probability models; sequences and series. Prerequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 or 157. Students with credit for MATH 152 or 155 may not take MATH 158 for further credit. Quantitative.
Students take an active role in modeling mathematics of change through a guided, investigative, discovery-based approach of learning that mimics past and present research methods in mathematics. The course is divided into several modules, each of which centers around a major application in mathematics using calculus such as logistic growth (e.g. spread of diseases), optimization (e.g. cost effective oil pipe line routes), approximation (e.g. security system design), area calculation (e.g. tile design) and volume calculation (e.g. optimal ice cream cone) as well as a function review module and calculus history module. The history module allows students to gain a broad understanding of the developments of calculus and how this branch of mathematics helped to shape other branches of mathematics as well as the sciences. The instructional approach emphasizes conceptual understanding over rote drill and student write, present, and defend their mathematical discoveries. Prerequisite: Either BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent) or BC applications of mathematics 12, or MATH 100 with a grade of at least C-. Writing/Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Introduction to fractal geometry and chaos theory, with a survey of applications of these topics in modern mathematics and in other areas outside of mathematics including music, art, computer graphics, finance, and the sciences. Designed to be accessible to students with only high school mathematics. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 12 (or equivalent), or MATH 100 with a grade of at least C-. Writing/Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Mathematical ideas involved in number systems and geometry in the elementary school curriculum. Overview of the historical development of these ideas, and their place in contemporary mathematics. Language and notation of mathematics; problem solving; whole number, fractional number, and rational number systems. Plane geometry, solid geometry, metric geometry, and the geometry of the motion. Introduction to probability and statistics. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 11 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B- or SFU FAN X99 with a grade of at least C, or achieving a satisfactory grade on the Simon Fraser University Quantitative Placement Test. This course may not be counted toward the Mathematics minor, major or honors degree requirements. Students who have taken, have received transfer credit for, or are currently taking MATH 150,  151, 154 or 157 may not take MATH 190 for credit without permission from the Department of Mathematics. Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in mathematics. Quantitative.
Should you buy a ticket for 6/49 or Super 7? If you tested positive for a rare disease, what is the chance that you actually do have it? What are likely to be the consequences of moving to a single transferable vote voting system from a "first past the post" voting system? What is the connection between Chinese dragging noodles, E. coli bacteria and interest on your credit card? These are some of the questions we will be investigating in this course. We will also look into the use, misuse and abuse of mathematics in the media and advertisements. Prerequisite: BC principles of mathematics 11 or equivalent. Students who have taken, have received transfer credit for, or are currently taking MATH 150, 151, 154 or 157 may not take MATH 197 for credit without permission from the Department of Mathematics. This course may not be counted toward the Mathematics minor, major or honors degree requirements. Quantitative.
Designed specifically for students in the Integrated Studies programs to help them develop their abilities to interpret and reason with quantitative information. Topics covered include logical reasoning and problem solving, counting and probability, mathematics of finance, and linear and exponential modeling. Prerequisite: BC Principles of Mathematics 11 (or equivalent) with a grade of at least B, or Simon Fraser University FAN X99 course with a grade of at least C. This course is only open for credit to students in the Integrated Studies programs within the Bachelor of General Studies degree. Quantitative.
Introduction to methods of operations research: linear and nonlinear programming, simulation, and heuristic methods. Applications to transportation, assignment, scheduling, and game theory. Exposure to mathematical models of industry and technology. Emphasis on computation for analysis and simulation. Prerequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 or 157. Quantitative.
Introduction to methods of operations research: linear and nonlinear programming, simulation, and heuristic methods. Applications to transportation, assignment, scheduling, and game theory. Exposure to mathematical models of industry and technology. Emphasis on computation for analysis and simulation. Prerequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 or 157. Writing/Quantitative.
Linear equations, matrices, determinants. Introduction to vector spaces and linear transformations and bases. Complex numbers. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors; diagonalization. Inner products and orthogonality; least squares problems. An emphasis on applications involving matrix and vector calculations. Prerequisite: MATH  150 or 151; or MACM 101; or MATH 154 or 157,  both with a grade of at least  B. Students with credit for MATH 240 cannot take MATH 232 for further credit. Quantitative.
Linear equations, matrices, determinants. Real and abstract vector spaces, subspaces and linear transformations; basis and change of basis. Complex numbers. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors; diagonalization. Inner products and orthogonality; least squares problems. Applications. Subject is presented with an abstract emphasis and includes proofs of the basic theorems. Prerequisite: MATH 150 or 151; or MACM 101; or MATH 154 or 157, both with a grade of at least B. Students with credit for MATH 232 cannot take MATH 240 for further credit. Quantitative.
Mathematical induction. Limits of real sequences and real functions. Continuity and its consequences. The mean value theorem. The fundamental theorem of calculus. Series. Prerequisite: MATH 152; or MATH 155 or 158 with a grade of B. Quantitative.
Rectangular, cylindrical and spherical coordinates. Vectors, lines, planes, cylinders, quadric surfaces. Vector functions, curves, motion in space. Differential and integral calculus of several variables. Vector fields, line integrals, fundamental theorem for line integrals, Green's theorem. Prerequisite: MATH 152; or MATH 155 or MATH 158 with a grade of at least B. Recommended: It is recommended that MATH 240 or 232 be taken before or concurrently with MATH 251. Quantitative.
Vector calculus, divergence, gradient and curl; line, surface and volume integrals; conservative fields, theorems of Gauss, Green and Stokes; general curvilinear coordinates and tensor notation. Introduction to orthogonality of functions, orthogonal polynomials and Fourier series. Prerequisite:    MATH 251. Corequisite:   MATH 232 or 240. Students with credit for MATH 254 may not take MATH 252 for further credit. Quantitative.
Designed for students in the Engineering Science program. Combines a continuation of the study of vector calculus from MATH 251 with an introduction to functions of a complex variable. Vector functions of a single variable, space curves, scalar and vector fields, conservative fields, surface and volume integrals, and theorems of Gauss, Green and Stokes. Functions of a complex variable, differentiability, contour integrals, Cauchy's theorem. Taylor and Laurent expansion, method of residues, integral transform and conformal mapping. Prerequisite: MATH 240 or 232, and MATH 251. Students with credit for MATH 322 or MATH 252 may not take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Topics will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisites will be specified according to the particular topic or topics offered.
Topics will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisites will be specified according to the particular topic or topics offered.
Independent study of computational models in a specialized area of mathematics. Course plans, made in consultation with a supervising instructor, should cover a broad computational perspective, and involve at least three distinct modelling or computational approaches. Prerequisite: one of MATH 232 or 240; and MATH 251. Written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
Computational techniques have become a cornerstone of modern mathematics. Each offering explores the mathematics of an area of advanced technology. Potential course topics include: image processing; codes and ciphers; bioinformatics; experimental mathematics; and modeling and simulation. Prerequisite: MATH 152 or 155 or 158 and MATH 232 or 240. There may be additional prerequisites depending on the course's topics. Recommended: MACM 202, 203, or 204 or equivalent computing experience. Department permission is required to complete this course more than once. Quantitative.
Geometry is the mathematics of form and space, and is vital to our understanding of both the physical and virtual worlds. Designing computer graphics is an example of using mathematics to encode spatial relationships. Potential topics include: Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometries, computational geometry, differential geometry, and symmetry. Prerequisite: MATH 152 or 155 or 158 and MATH 232 or 240. There may be additional prerequisites depending on the course's topics. Department permission is required to complete this course more than once. Quantitative.
Probability theory is the mathematics of uncertainty as in weather forecasting, genetics, the financial markets, and even your choice of line at the grocery. Here we explore models that quantify chance in daily life. Potential topics are: game theory, queueing theory, random processes, and the mathematics of finance. Prerequisite: MATH 152 or 155 or 158 and MATH 232 or 240. There may be additional prerequisites depending on the course's topics. Department permission is required to complete this course more than once. Quantitative.
Linear programming modelling. The simplex method and its variants. Duality theory. Post-optimality analysis. Applications and software. Additional topics may include: game theory, network simplex algorithm, and convex sets. Prerequisite: MATH 150, 151, 154, or 157 and MATH 240 or 232. Quantitative.
Theoretical and computational methods for investigating the minimum of a function of several real variables with and without inequality constraints. Applications to operations research, model fitting, and economic theory. Prerequisite:    MATH 232 or 240, and 251.   Quantitative.
First-order differential equations, second- and higher-order linear equations, series solutions, introduction to Laplace transform, systems and numerical methods, applications in the physical, biological and social sciences. Prerequisite: MATH 152; or MATH 155/158 with a grade of at least B, MATH 232 or 240. Quantitative.
Fourier series, ODE boundary and eigenvalue problems. Separation of variables for the diffusion wave and Laplace/Poisson equations. Polar and spherical co-ordinate systems. Symbolic and numerical computing, and graphics for PDEs. Prerequisite:    MATH 310; and one of 251 with a grade of B+, or one of 252 or 254.   Quantitative.
Sequences and series of functions, topology of sets in Euclidean space, introduction to metric spaces, functions of several variables. Prerequisite: MATH 242 and 251. Quantitative.
Functions of a complex variable, differentiability, contour integrals, Cauchy's theorem, Taylor and Laurent expansions, method of residues. Prerequisite: MATH 251. Students with credit for MATH 424 may not take MATH 322 for further credit. Quantitative.
This is the first term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to mathematics students. Interested students should contact departmental advisors as early in their careers as possible, for proper counselling. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: students must apply to and receive permission from the co-op co-ordinator at least one, preferably two, terms in advance. They will normally be required to have completed 45 units with a GPA of 2.5. This course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
This is the second term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to mathematics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: MATH 336 and permission of the co-op co-ordinator; students must apply at least one term in advance. This course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
Linear Algebra. Vector space and matrix theory. Prerequisite: MATH 340 or 332 or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for MATH 438 cannot take MATH 338 for further credit. Quantitative.
The integers and mathematical proof. Relations and modular arithmetic. Rings and fields, polynomial rings, the Euclidean algorithm. The complex numbers and the fundamental theorem of algebra. Construction of finite fields, primitive elements in finite fields, and their application. Prerequisite: MATH 240 (or MATH 232 with a grade of at least B). Students with credit for MATH 332 cannot  take MATH 340 for further credit. Quantitative.
Finite groups and subgroups. Cyclic groups and permutation groups. Cosets, normal subgroups and factor groups. Homomorphisms and isomorphisms. Fundamental theorem of finite abelian groups. Sylow theorems. Prerequisite: MATH 340 or 342 or 332. Students with credit for MATH 339 cannot take MATH 341 for further credit.
The prime numbers, unique factorization, congruences and quadractic reciprocity. Topics include the RSA public key cryptosystem and the prime number theorem Prerequisite: MATH 240 or 232, and one additional 200 level MATH or MACM course. Quantitative.
Structures and algorithms, generating elementary combinatorial objects, counting (integer partitions, set partitions, Catalan families), backtracking algorithms, branch and bound, heuristic search algorithms. Prerequisite: MACM 201 (with a grade of at least B-). Recommended: knowledge of a programming language. Quantitative.
Fundamental concepts, trees and distances, matchings and factors, connectivity and paths, network flows, integral flows. Prerequisite: MACM 201 (with a grade of at least B-). Quantitative.
Inventory theory, Markov decision process and applications, queuing theory, forecasting models, decision Analysis and games, probabilistic dynamic programming, simulation modeling, project planning using PERT/CPM, sequencing and scheduling. Prerequisite: STAT 270, MATH 308. Quantitative.
Covers the same topics as MATH 370W but without the W component. Prerequisite: MACM 201 with a grade of at least B. At least one of MACM 201, MACM 202, MATH 240, MATH 242, MATH 251 or MATH 252 with a grade of at least A, or permission of instructor. Quantitative.
Designed for students with a strong interest in problem solving and the determination to persevere in seeking solutions to highly challenging mathematical problems. Intended as a preparation for the Putnam Competition, the most challenging and prestigious undergraduate mathematics competition in North America, in which effective presentation of solutions is as important as skill in problem solving. Develops problem solving skills, including confidence, persistence, and willingness to experiment freely as well as to pursue rigorous argument. Reviews strategic principles, tactical approaches, and specific technical tools for problem solving, and mathematical problem solving folklore. Emphasis is placed on clarity of exposition and persuasiveness of written argument, and on development of communication skills. Prerequisite: MACM 201 with a grade of at least B. At least one of MACM 201, MACM 202, MATH 240, MATH 242, MATH 251 or MATH 252 with a grade of at least A, or permission of instructor. Writing/Quantitative.
An account of the history of mathematics from ancient times through the development of calculus and the origins of modern algebra in the nineteenth century. Emphasis will be on developments which shaped the mathematics studied in high school and the first two years of university. Prerequisite: MATH 151 (or equivalent) and at least 6 units from MATH at the 200 division or above (includes STAT 270). Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in mathematics. Writing/Quantitative.
A writing and presentation-intensive study of an area of mathematics. Students will read and prepare written and oral comments on material in the mathematics literature. Prerequisite: six units of mathematics at the 200 division or higher. Writing/Quantitative.
Topics in areas of mathematics not covered in the regular undergraduate curriculum of the department. Prerequisites will be specified according to the particular topic or topics offered.
Applications of mathematical methods to industrial problems. Emphasis will be placed on the mathematical formulation of problems arising in an industrial context. Topics will be drawn from many areas, including (but not limited to): coding theory, continuum mechanics, optimal control and signal processing. Students will choose problems to work and present their solutions in the form of a written report, poster or oral presentation. Prerequisite: MACM 202 or two of MACM 203, MACM 204 or MATH 294; MACM 316; MATH 251, 308, 310; STAT 285. Quantitative.
Students will choose problems to work and present their solutions in the form of a written report, poster or oral presentation. Prerequisite: MACM 202 or two of MACM 203, MACM 204 or MATH 294; MACM 316; MATH 251, 308, 310; STAT 285. Writing/Quantitative.
Model building using integer variables, computer solution, relaxations and lower bounds, heuristics and upper bounds, branch and bound algorithms, cutting plane algorithms, valid inequalities and facets, branch and cut algorithms, Lagrangian duality, column generation of algorithms, heuristics algorithms and analysis. Prerequisite: MATH 308 and MACM 201 (with a grade of at least B-).
First-order linear equations, the method of characteristics. The wave equation. Harmonic functions, the maximum principle, Green's functions. The heat equation. Distributions and transforms. Higher dimensional eigenvalue problems. An introduction to nonlinear equations. Burgers' equation and shock waves. Prerequisite:    MATH 310 and one of MATH 314, 320, 322, PHYS 384. An alternative to the above prerequisite is both of MATH 254 and MATH 310, both with grades of at least A-.   Quantitative.
Convergence in Euclidean spaces, Fourier series and their convergence, Legendre polynomials, Hermite and Laguerre polynomials. Prerequisite:    MATH 232 or 240 and one of MATH 314, 320, 322, PHYS 384.  Students with credit for MATH 420 or MATH 719 may not complete this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Conformal mapping, Cauchy Integral Formula, Analytic Continuation, Riemann Mapping Theorem, Argument Principle. Prerequisite: MATH 320 and either MATH 322 or 254, or permission of the instructor. Quantitative.
Metric spaces, normed vector spaces, measure and integration, an introduction to functional analysis. Prerequisite: MATH 320. Quantitative.
This is the third term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to mathematics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser Universitiy degree. Prerequisite: MATH 337 and permission of the co-op co-ordinator; students must apply at least one term in advance. This course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
This is the fourth term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to mathematics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: MATH 436 and permission of the co-op co-ordinator; students must apply at least one term in advance. This course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
Topics in advanced algebra not covered by other courses. Prerequisite:    MATH 338 or 340 or 332, according to the particular topic or topics offered.
An introduction to the theory of fields, with emphasis on Galois theory. Prerequisite: MATH 340 or 332. Quantitative.
Design theory: Steiner triple systems, balanced incomplete block designs, latin squares, finite geometries. Enumeration: generating functions. Burnside's Lemma, Polya counting.  Prerequisite: MATH 340 or 332, and MACM 201 (with a grade of at least B-). Quantitative.
Graph coloring, Hamiltonian graphs, planar graphs, random graphs, Ramsey theory, extremal problems, additional topics. Prerequisite: MATH 345. Quantitative.
An introduction to the theory and practice of error-correcting codes. Topics will include finite fields, polynomial rings, linear and non-linear codes, BCH codes, convolutional codes, majority logic decoding, weight distribution of codes, and bounds on the size of codes. Prerequisite: MATH 340 or 332. Quantitative.
Applications of network flow models; flow decomposition; polynomial algorithms for shortest paths, maximum flows and minimum costs flows; convex cost flows; generalized flows, multi-commodity flows. Prerequisite: CMPT 225, MATH 308, 345. Quantitative.
Formulation, analysis and numerical solution of continuous mathematical models. Applications may be selected from topics in physics, biology, engineering and economics. Prerequisite:    MATH 310 and one of MATH 314, MACM 316, MATH 418, PHYS 384. An alternative to the above prerequisite is both of MATH 251 and MATH 310, both with grades of at least B+.  Students with credit for MATH 361 or MATH 761 may not complete this course for further credit Quantitative
Incompressible fluid flow phenomena: kinematics and equations of motion, viscous flow and boundary layer theory, potential flow, water waves. Aerodynamics. Prerequisite:    one of MATH 314. 418 PHYS 384. An alternative to the above prerequisite is both of MATH 251 and MATH 310, both with grades of at least B+.  Equivalent Courses: MATH 762. Quantitative.
Stability and bifurcation in continuous and discrete dynamical systems, with applications. The study of the local and global behaviour of linear and nonlinear systems, including equilibria and periodic orbits, phase plane analysis, conservative systems, limit cycles, the Poincare-Bendixson theorem, Hopf bifurcation and an introduction to chaos. Prerequisite:    MATH 310.  Equivalent Courses: MATH 767. Quantitative.
Procedures of Euler, Lagrange and Hamilton. Extremum problems, stationary values of integrals. Canonical equations of motion, phase space, Lagrangian and Poisson brackets. Prerequisite:    MATH 310 and one of MATH 314, 320, 322, PHYS 384. An alternative to the above prerequisite is both of MATH 254 and MATH 310, both with grades of at least A-.  Equivalent Courses: MATH 770. Quantitative.
This is an optional fifth term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to mathematics and statistics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: MATH 437 and permission of the co-op co-ordinator. Students must apply at least one term in advance.
Selected topics. Prerequisite: written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
The topics included in this course will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: will be specified according to the particular topic or topics offered under this course number.
The topics included in these courses will vary from term to term depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: will be specified according to the particular topic or topics offered under these course numbers.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
Arithmetic and Geometry form the core of the elementary school curriculum. The fundamental concepts in both these areas of mathematics will be approached through exploratory exercises and problems as well as in projects. The students will work both singly and in groups to explore the ideas of mathematics. The presentations will be non-theoretical. Prerequisite: acceptance into the master's program in mathematics education or permission of the department. Graduate students in Department of Mathematics cannot take this course to satisfy their degree requirements.
Discrete mathematics is used in computer communications, scheduling and transportation problems. Statistics is encountered by each of us every day in the newspapers and on television as medical findings, sporting results and economic strategies are discussed. These are two of the most accessible areas of modern applied mathematics and many problems and the ideas behind their solution can be understood and appreciated by students with only a modest mathematical background. Several topics in these areas and their relationship to real world problems will be explored. The exploration will be done through a series of projects with students often working in teams and making presentations of their discoveries. The presentation will be non-theoretical. Prerequisite: MATH 601 and acceptance into the master's program in mathematics education or permission of the department. Graduate students in Department of Mathematics cannot take this course to satisfy their degree requirements.
Crises in mathematics, their historical and philosophical background and their resolution. Prerequisite: acceptance into the MSc program in mathematics education or permission of the department. Graduate students in the Department of Mathematics cannot take this course to satisfy their degree requirements.
Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometries. Klein's erlangen program. Prerequisite: entrance into the MSc in mathematics education program or permission of the department. Graduate students in the Department of Mathematics cannot take this course to satisfy their degree requirements.
Mathematical modeling in the largest sense with a focus on topics and issues related to doing and discovering mathematics, including explorations of available computational resources, e.g. Maple. Prerequisite: acceptance into the MSc program in mathematics education and one year of university level calculus. Graduate students in the Department of Mathematics cannot take this course to satisfy their degree requirements.
Data-structures and algorithms for mathematical objects, including polynomials, general mathematical formulae, long integer arithmetic, polynomial greatest common divisors, the Risch integration algorithm. Other topics include symbolic differentiation, simplification of formulae, and polynomial factorization. Students will learn Maple for use on assignments. Prerequisite: CMPT 307 or MATH 332. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MATH 408-3. See description for MATH 408-3. Prerequisite: Same as for MATH 408 or equivalent. Exclusion: MATH 408. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MACM 409. See description for MACM 409. Prerequisite: Same as for MACM 409 or equivalent. Exclusion MACM 409. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
The numerical solution of ordinary differential equations and elliptic, hyperbolic and parabolic partial differential equations will be considered. Prerequisite: MATH 310 (or 352) and MACM 316. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
First-order linear equations, the method of characteristics. The wave equation. Harmonic functions, the maximum principle, Green's functions. The heat equation. Distributions and transforms. Higher dimensional eigenvalue problems. An introduction to nonlinear equations. Burgers' equation and shock waves. Prerequisite: MATH 314 (or PHYS 384),  or permission of the department. Recommended: MATH 242 and 320. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Convergence in Euclidean spaces, Fourier series and their convergence, Legendre polynomials, Hermite and Laguerre polynomials. Prerequisite: MATH 232, 320 or permission of the instructor. Recommended: MATH 252. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Conformal mapping, application to boundary value problems, Schwarz-Christoffel transformation, integral formulas, analytic continuation, argument principle. Prerequisite: MATH 322. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Metric spaces, normed vector spaces, measure and integration, an introduction to functional analysis. Prerequisite: MATH 320. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Linear Algebra. Vector space and matrix theory. Prerequisite: MATH 332 or 339 or permission of the instructor. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Algebraic systems including, for example, groups, rings. Polynomial theory. Prerequisite:    appropriate knowledge of algebraic structures.  Students may not take a 700 division course if it s being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously
An introduction to the theory of fields, with emphasis on Galois theory. Prerequisite: MATH 332. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MACM 442 See description for MACM 442. Prerequisite: Same as for MACM 442 or equivalent. Exclusion: MACM 442. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Design theory: Steiner triple systems, balanced incomplete block designs, latin squares, finite geometries. Enumeration: generating functions. Burnside's Lemma, Polya counting.  Prerequisite: MATH 343 and MATH 340 or 332. Recommended: MATH 345 and 440.  Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Graph coloring, Hamiltonian graphs, planar graphs, random graphs, Ramsey theory, extremal problems, additional topics. Prerequisite: MATH 345. Recommended: MATH 343. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
An introduction to the theory and practice of error-correcting codes. Topics will include finite fields, polynomial rings, linear and non-linear codes, BCH codes, convolutional codes, majority logic decoding, weight distribution of codes, and bounds on the size of codes. Prerequisite: MATH 232. Recommended: MATH 332. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MATH 448. See description for MATH 448. Prerequisite: Same as for MATH 448 or equivalent. Exclusion: MATH 448. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Formulation, analysis and numerical solution of continuous mathematical models. Applications may be selected from topics in physics, biology, engineering and economics. Prerequisite: MATH 314 and MACM 316. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Incompressible fluid flow phenomena: kinematics and equations of motion, viscous flow and boundary layer theory, potential flow, water waves. Aerodynamics. Prerequisite: MATH 314 or PHYS 384, MATH 322. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Stability and bifurcation in vector fields and discrete maps. Centre manifold theory and applications of normal forms. Introduction to chaos, Lyapunov exponents, and normal hyperbolicity. Prerequisite: MATH 310. Recommended: MATH 320. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MATH 470. See description for MATH 470. Prerequisite: Same as for MATH 470 or equivalent. Exclusion: MATH 470. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MATH 495. See description for MATH 495. Prerequisite: Same as for MATH 495 or equivalent. Exclusion: MATH 495. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
Held jointly with MATH 496. See description for MATH 496. Prerequisite: Same as for MATH 496 or equivalent. Exclusion: Math 496. Students may not take a 700 division course if it is being offered in conjunction with a 400 division course which they have taken previously.
No description available
A survey of graduate group and/or ring theory. Possible topics include generators and relations, composition series, Sylow theory, permutation groups, abelian groups, p-groups, nilpotent and solvable groups, aspects of simple groups, representation theory, group algebras, chain conditions, Jacobson radical, Chevalley-Jacobson density theorem, Wedderburn-Artin theorems.
An introduction to algebraic geometry with supporting commutative algebra. Possible topics include Hilbert basis theorem, Hilbert's Nullstellensatz, Groebner bases, ideal decomposition, local rings, dimension, tangent and cotangent spaces, differentials, varieties, morphisms, rational maps, non-singularity, intersections in projective space, cohomology theory, curves, surfaces, homological algebra.
No description available
Algebraic graph theory, extremal graph theory, coloring problems, path and cycle structure of graphs, application of graphs, hypergraphs, and current research topics.
An introduction to the theory of incidence structures (finite geometries, block designs) and their relation to linear codes. Algebraic techniques - finite group actions, orbit enumeration, generation of orbit representatives. Exact and asymptotic enumeration of labelled and unlabelled structures.
An introduction to the theory of posets, geometric lattices and matroids.
No description available
An intensive study of Lebesque measure, integration and the Lebesque convergence theorems together with the treatment of such topics as absolute continuity, the fundamental theorem of calculus, the Lp-spaces, comparison of types of convergence in function spaces, the Baire category theorem.
No description available
Topics covered normally will include: Riemann surfaces, complex conjugate co-ordinates; the maximum principle, boundary value problems; conformal mappings, Schwartz-Christoffel formula; the symmetry principle, analytic continuation.
No description available
Review of Galois theory, integrality, rings of integers, traces, norms, discriminants, ideals, Dedekind domains, class groups, unit groups, Minkowski theory, ramification, cyclotomic fields, valuations, completions, applications.
Arithmetical functions, distribution of prime numbers, theory of Dirichlet characters, Dirichlet series, theory of Riemann Zeta functions and Dirichlet L-functions, exponential sums, character sums, Diophantine equations, Diophantine approximations, applications.
No description available
No description available
A comprehensive written examination covering a broad range of senior undergraduate and graduate material.
An open oral defence of a written thesis proposal presented to the student's supervisory committee.
A project leading to research in mathematics completed under the supervision of a faculty member. The project will consist of a written report and a public presentation. This course can only be used for credit towards the MSc project course option.
A written examination covering senior undergraduate and basic graduate material.
First term of work experience in a co-operative education program.
Second term of work experience in a co-operative education program.
Third term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program. Prerequisite: MATH 891.
Fourth term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program. Prerequisite: MATH 892.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
First term of work experience in the Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: acceptance in the Science Co-operative Education Program.
An introduction to cellular processes with an emphasis on protein structure and function. Topics that will be explored include transcription, translation and protein synthesis, basic metabolic pathways, biomembranes, organelles, vesicle transport, the cytoskeleton and cell signaling. Prerequisite: BISC 101; CHEM 281 as prerequisite or corequisite.
The structure, function and synthesis of proteins, RNA and DNA and their interrelated biological functions within the cell. An introduction to molecular biology techniques and methods of protein purification and analysis. Prerequisite: CHEM 281 with a grade of C- or better. Prerequisite/Corequisite: CHEM 282.
A study of the molecular processes which underlie cell structure and function, integrating ultrastructural, physiological and biochemical approaches. Modern techniques used in the analysis of organelle and cell function are integral parts of the course. Prerequisite:    MBB 222, BISC 101 and CHEM 282 with grades of C- or better.  Students may not receive credit for MBB 221 and MBB 231.
A broad introductory survey of the genome sciences including genome organization, whole genome sequencing, genomic variation in health and disease, comparative genomics, transcriptomes and proteomes and some applications of genomics. Workshops will introduce bioinformatic approaches to the use of genomic databases. Prerequisite: BISC 101, BISC 102, MBB 222 with grades of B- or better, or permission of the department.
Second term of work experience in the Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: acceptance in the Science Co-operative Education Program.
A survey of the legal, economic and social aspects of technology transfer in the areas of molecular biology, biochemistry, and biotechnology presented by a series of local experts. Topics will include patents, contracts, intellectual property, capitalization and others. The format will be a formal lecture followed by a workshop. Prerequisite: completion of the second year in the Molecular Biology and Biochemistry and Business Administration joint major or equivalent experience.
Modern molecular biological and recombinant DNA methods such as DNA isolation, plasmid preparation, restriction enzyme digestion, Southern blots, cloning and polymerase chain reaction. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231, and MBB 331 as a co- or prerequisite (the latter is recommended). Students with credit for BISC 357 may not take MBB 308 for further credit.
Contemporary techniques in biochemistry including protein purification, immunochemical methods, and lipid characterization. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231. Recommended: CHEM 215 and CHEM 286 precede MBB 309.
Contemporary techniques in biochemistry including protein purification, immunochemical methods, and lipid characterization. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231. Recommended: CHEM 215 and CHEM 286 precede MBB 309. Writing.
The enzymes and intermediates of major catabolic and anabolic pathways. Their regulation and integration in health and disease states. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231.
Biochemical and molecular aspects of cellular function, interactions and communication including cell cycle, apoptosis, cancer, immune system, neuronal transmission and the signal transduction pathways that integrate them. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231.
Introduction to physical biochemistry including rigorous treatment of thermodynamics and molecular transport and interactions with specific emphasis on biochemical and molecular biological processes. CHEM 360 may be substituted as an alternative to this requirement for MBB majors. Prerequisite: MATH 152 (or 155), PHYS 121 (or 102, or 126, or 141), CHEM 122 (or 102), MBB 222.
The study of DNA  and RNA in relation to gene structure and expression: DNA replication and the regulation of gene expression in bacteria and higher organisms. Introduction to recombinant DNA and cloning theory; natural vector structures and recombinant vector construction. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231, BISC 202.
Third term of work experience in the Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: acceptance in the Science Co-operative Education Program.
Selected aspects of developmental biology with an emphasis on genetic and molecular analyses in model systems such as Drosophilia, C. elegans and mice. The focus will be on signal transduction pathways and their regulation of developmental processes. Prerequisite: BISC 333 and MBB 331.
The measurement of physical properties of macromolecules; studies with bio-membranes. Prerequisite: MBB 309 (or 312) and 321 (or BICH 321), and either MBB 323 or CHEM 360. Students with credit for BICH 413 may not take MBB 413 for further credit.
The topics in this course will vary from term to term, depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite: will be announced before the start of the term and will depend upon the nature of the topic offered.
Recent literature is examined for insights into the structure and properties of DNA and RNA, drawing on a variety of biochemical, chemical and molecular biological perspectives. Prerequisite: MBB 331.
A review of recent research on the structure, dynamics, function and biosynthesis of membranes, membrane lipids and proteins. Prerequisite:    MBB 322.
Recent research in transition state theory; specificity in enzyme catalyzed reactions, the use of recombinant DNA techniques to describe and modify enzyme catalysis, the function of enzymes in organic solvents, and the development of new catalytic activities through monoclonal antibody techniques. Prerequisite: two of MBB 321, 322, 323, 331.
Structure and function of molecules that mediate transport across membranes including channels, carriers, and pumps. Primary literature from the fields of biochemistry and physiology will be explored through lectures and independent study. Prerequisite: MBB 321, 322 and either MBB 323 or CHEM 360. Students who have taken MBB 420 under the same topic may not take this course for further credit.
The basic organization of the immune system, including structure, function and genetics of antibodies, T-cell receptors, innate immune receptors, and the complement system. Innate, antibody and cellular immune responses and their control, and development of the cells involved in these responses.  Prerequisite: MBB 331. Students who have taken HSCI 325 or 426  cannot take MBB 426 for further credit.
The immunologic response to bacterial, viral and parasitic infections, immunological diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiency, hypersensitivity reactions (including asthma and allergy) and transplantation-rejection reactions. Immunotherapeutics and vaccine development. Prerequisite: MBB 426 or HSCI 426. MBB 427 is identical to HSCI 427 and students cannot receive credit for both courses.
The molecular strategies that bacterial, viral and fungal pathogens use to colonize the human body and cause disease will be studied. Using specific organisms as illustrations, emphasis will be placed on the structural biology of molecular systems such as acquisition and use of virulence factors, adhesion to and invasion of host cells, secretion of toxins and immune escape. Prions, zoonoses and emerging diseases will be included. Prerequisite: MBB 322. Students who have taken MBB 420 under the same title cannot take this course for further credit.
Analysis of mechanisms of protein, lipid, and nucleic acid delivery and transport within cells; processes of protein targeting, exocytosis, and endocytosis; molecular mechanisms of vesicle transport and membrane fusion; role in signal transduction and disease. Prerequisite: MBB 322 and MBB 331.
The cellular basis of selected chronic diseases such as cancer and polycystic kidney disease will be explored in-depth. Through the use of lectures and group discussions and an emphasis on the primary literature, the focus will be on recent developments in the study of these diseases. Prerequisite: MBB 322 and 331. Students who have taken MBB 440 under the same title cannot take this course for further credit.
Laboratory with accompanying lectures designed to give practical experience in advanced contemporary molecular biology techniques. Lab exercises will include site-directed mutagenesis, preparation and characterization of GST-fusion proteins, construction of transgenes and their expression in transgenic organisms, and use of the yeast two-hybrid assay to study protein-protein interactions. Prerequisite: MBB 308 and 331, or permission of instructor.
The analysis of entire genomes of organisms has only been possible since 1995. This new area of study will be examined in detail with emphasis on current research. Prerequisite: MBB 331.
Lectures and student presentations will cover the wide range of ways in which organisms (primarily eukaryotes) regulate gene expression along the pathway from DNA to protein. Prerequisite: MBB 331.
An investigation of how biochemistry, cell biology and genetics is used to study the diverse mechanisms used in cell signaling along with an exploration of how the various approaches to studying signal transduction complement each other. Prerequisite: MBB 321, MBB 322 and MBB 331.
Recent advances in human molecular genetics including genome analysis, gene therapy, genetic testing, and studies of genetic disorders. Prerequisite: MBB 331.
The topics in this course will vary from term to term, depending on faculty availability and student interest. Prerequisite:  will depend upon the nature of the topic offered.  Corequisite:  will depend upon the nature of the topic offered.
Lectures and hands-on instruction at the computer in the use of, and theory behind, bioinformatic software and algorithms for the analysis of macromolecular data. Prerequisite: MBB 331 and an introductory computer science course (e.g. CMPT 110 or 120), or equivalent.
Proteomics concerns the analysis of the entire complement of proteins expressed by an organism. This course will consider protein sequence alignment, sequence database scanning, classification of protein structures, prediction of protein structure and function, and evolution of protein function. Prerequisite: MBB 321 and MBB 322; an introductory computer course (e.g. CMPT 110 or 120), or equivalent.
A consideration of protein biogenesis (folding, assembly, and targeting to cellular compartments), modification, and degradation, and their roles in protein and cellular function. Prerequisite: MBB 321 and MBB 322.
Examination of recent literature on neuronal growth cones and axonal guidance. Cell cultural, biochemical, and molecular genetic approaches will be emphasized in assessing guidance cues. Prerequisite:    MBB 331.
Fourth term of work experience in the Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: acceptance in the Science Co-operative Education Program.
Fifth term of work experience in the Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Co-operative Education Program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: acceptance in the Science Co-operative Education Program.
Examination of the fundamentals of comparative genomics, identification and activity of functional elements in genomes, inter- and intra-species comparisons, relationship of genomic to phenotypic variation, and personalized genomics are among the topics to be explored. Comparison of genome data has impacts on medicine and many other fields of the life sciences. Prerequisite: MBB 331: Molecular Biology.  Students who have completed MBB 440 Comparative Genomics may not complete this course for further credit.
Part 1 of 3-part honors degree program, the individual study semester (ISS). The ISS provides students with the opportunity to carry out full time laboratory research in molecular biology and biochemistry. The grade for MBB 481 encompasses the research design aspect of the ISS, consisting of a written proposal and final report. Prerequisite: enrolment in the MBB or Biological Physics Honors Program, a minimum 3.0 CGPA and 3.0 UDGPA and permission of the MBB department. Students may not receive credit for both MBB 481 and MBB 493. Corequisite: MBB 482 and MBB 483.
Part 2 of a 3-part honors degree program, the individual study semester (ISS). The ISS provides students with the opportunity to carry out full time laboratory research in molecular biology and biochemistry. The grade for MBB 482 encompasses the research performance component of the ISS. Prerequisite: enrolment in the MBB or Biological Physics Honors Program, a minimum 3.0 CGPA and 3.0 UDGPA and permission of the MBB department. Students may not receive credit for both MBB 482 and MBB 493. Corequisite: MBB 481 and MBB 483.
Part 3 of a 3-part honors degree program, the individual study semester (ISS). The ISS provides students with the opportunity to carry out full time laboratory research in molecular biology and biochemistry. The grade for MBB 483 encompasses the research reporting component of the ISS. Prerequisite: enrolment in the MBB or Biological Physics Honors Program, a minimum 3.0 CGPA and 3.0 UDGPA and permission of the MBB department. Students may not receive credit for both MBB 483 and MBB 493. Corequisite: MBB 481 and MBB 482.
Directed reading in a topic of molecular biology or biochemistry chosen in consultation with a supervisor. Before seeking approval for enrolment in this course, the student should have already obtained the agreement of a faculty member that he/she is willing to supervise the project, and have prepared a written proposal (of approximately one page) stating the nature of the directed reading topic. The course will include the preparation of a written term paper on the topic chosen. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231 and permission of the molecular biology and biochemistry department. Usually, upper level standing with at least 60 units in a Biochemistry major, minor or honors program will be required.
Part time laboratory research in an area of molecular biology or biochemistry for preparation of a thesis in molecular biology and biochemistry. Before seeking approval for enrolment in this course, the student should already have obtained the agreement of a Simon Fraser University faculty member that he/she is willing to supervise the project, and have prepared a written proposal (of approximately 1-2 pages) stating the nature of the research project. The course will include the preparation of a written research report on the results of the project, and may also, at the discretion of the supervisor, include an oral presentation of the results. Prerequisite: MBB 222, and MBB 221 or MBB 231 and permission of the molecular biology and biochemistry department. Usually, upper level standing with at least 60 units in a molecular biology and biochemistry major, minor or honors program will be required.
Full time laboratory research in an area of molecular biology or biochemistry for preparation of a thesis for the honors degree in molecular biology and biochemistry. This course is available to honors students who have already taken MBB 491 (or BICH 491-5), or who plan to break an individual studies project into two terms (see below). The course will include the preparation of a comprehensive written research report on the results of the project, and may also, at the discretion of the supervisor, include an oral presentation of the results.  Prerequisite: permission of the department. Students with credit for BICH 492 may not take MBB 492 for further credit.
Directed reading and part-time scientific research in an area of molecular biology or biochemistry. This course is intended only for those students taking a joint MBB/BUS or MBB/CS honors degree. Before seeking approval for enrolment in this course, the student should already have obtained the agreement of a faculty member that he/she is willing to supervise the project, and have prepared a written proposal (of approximately 1-2 pages) stating the nature of the research readings and project. The course will include preparation of a written report on the results of the project, and may, at the discretion of the supervisor, include an oral presentation of the results. Prerequisite: 75 units and upper division standing in an MBB joint honors program, and MBB 308. Students who take MBB 496 are not allowed to take MBB 491, 492 or 493 with the same faculty supervisor.
The problem-based learning course will develop students' ability to exchange ideas in small groups focused on real but simplified problems in bioinformatics. Problems will be carefully selected to cover multiple areas of bioinformatics research. This is an advanced bioinformatics course that assumes the student has previous bioinformatics training. Prerequisite: MBB 841 or equivalent bioinformatics course (undergraduate or graduate). This course is identical to CMPT 505 and students can not take both courses for credit.
Advanced seminar series for bioinformatics. Prerequisites: enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to CMPT 506 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
Infectious pathogens (viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, helminths), their life cycle including vectors of transmission, the biological mechanisms by which they establish infection and cause disease in humans. Pathogenic and protective aspects of the human response to infection; roles of vaccines and chemotherapy in reducing disease transmission. Impact of environmental, ecological and social/behavioral factors, including health-care financing and policy, on the host-pathogen relationship. Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program, or permission of the instructor.
One term of original bioinformatics research conducted in the lab of a designated mentor. Students are required to write their results in a scientific journal format and defend these results before a panel consisting of the project mentor plus two other qualified faculty members.  Prerequisite: Enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to CMPT 611 and students can not receive credit for both courses.
One term of original bioinformatics research conducted in the lab of a designated mentor. Students are required to write their results in a scientific journal format and defend these results before a panel consisting of the project mentor plus two other qualified faculty members. Prerequisite: enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to CMPT 612 and students cannot receive credit for both courses.
One term of original bioinformatics research conducted in the lab of a designated mentor. Students are required to write their results in a scientific journal format and defend these results before a panel consisting of the project mentor plus two other qualified faculty members.  Prerequisites: Enrolment in Graduate Diploma in Bioinformatics. This course is identical to CMPT 613 and students can not receive credit for both courses.
Consideration of recent research literature on contemporary topics in bioinformatics. Prerequisites: MBB 441 or 841; or CMPT 341 or 881.
Consideration of recent research literature on contemporary topics in genomics.  Prerequisites: MBB 435 or 835.
Consideration of recent research literature on contemporary topics in proteomics.  Prerequisites: MBB 442 or 842.
An examination of recent literature about the structure and function of DNA and RNA.
A review of recent literature on the structure, dynamics, function and biosynthesis of membrane lipids and proteins.
Transition state theory; specificity in enzyme catalyzed reactions; use of recombinant DNA techniques to describe and modify enzyme catalysis, catalytic activities through monoclonal antibody techniques.
Structure and function of molecules that mediate transport across membranes including channels, carriers, and pumps. Primary literature from the fields of biochemistry and physiology will be explored through lectures and independent study. Prerequisite: MBB 321, 322 and either MBB 323 or CHEM 360 or permission of the instructor.
The basic organization of the immune system, including structure, function and genetics of antibodies, T-cell receptors, innate immune receptors, and the complement system. Innate, antibody and cellular immune responses and their control, and development of the cells involved in these responses. Prerequisite: MBB 331 or permission of the instructor. Students with credit for MBB or HSCI 426, MBB 826 or HSCI 726 may not complete MBB 726 for credit.
The immunologic response to bacterial, viral and parasitic infections, immunological diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiency, hypersensitivity reactions (including asthma and allergy) and transplantation-rejection reactions. Immunotherapeutics and vaccine development. Prerequisite: MBB HSCI 426 or permission of the instructor.
Analysis of mechanisms of protein, lipid, and nucleic acid delivery and transport within cells. The course will examine processes of protein targeting, exocytosis, and endocytosis; molecular mechanisms of COP-and clathrin-mediated vesicle transport; and viral and SNARE-mediated membrane fusion. Lectures will present landmark experiments from classic papers, and student presentations will focus on recent research articles. The significance of these findings with respect to human disease and signal transduction will be considered. Prerequisite: MBB 322 and BISC 331/MBB 331 or permission of the instructor.
A consideration of the mechanisms and regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
Consideration of recent literature dealing with mechanisms of signal transduction. The emphasis of the course varies from term to term. Past offerings have ranged from a specific focus on studying signaling using molecular genetics in model organisms, to an examination of diverse cell biological, biochemical, and genetic approaches being used in current signal transduction research.
The course will consider recent advances in human molecular genetics. Topics will include genome analysis, genetic testing, and studies of genetic disorders. Prerequisite: MBB 331 (or BISC 331) or equivalent.
An overview of the newly emerging field of bioinformatics, which is loosely defined as the intersection between the fields of molecular biology and computer science. A combination of lecture format and hands-on instruction is provided in the use of, and theory behind, bioinformatic software tools used in genomic and computational biology research. An introduction to the development of bioinformatic software is included, though only basic computer science knowledge is required for this particular course. Prerequisite: one introductory computer programming course (e.g. CMPT 102, 103, 110, 120  or equivalent).
Since the completion of the human genome, the next step is to understand the function of these genes. Proteomics cover the integration of a number of topics with the aim of analyzing the complete complement of proteins expressed by a biological system. This course will give a general understanding of the proteome, describe many of the different aspects of proteomics that have been developed recently, identify the technologic limitations related to proteomics, and will also include likely future directions for the field. Prerequisite: one introductory computer programming course (e.g. CMPT 102, 103, 110, 120  or equivalent).
The central dogma of molecular biology (DNA to RNA to protein) underscores two fundamental biological processes, transcription and translation, that are essential to life. Protein biogenesis (folding, assembly, targeting to the proper cellular compartment), protein modification and protein degradation represent three other equally important cellular activities. The emphasis in this course will be to review the literature on protein biogenesis, function, and degradation, and explore the new and exciting developments that are just starting to uncover how mechanistically complex these processes are.
The course will examine recent literature on neuronal growth cones and axonal guidance. Cell cultural, biochemical, and molecular genetic approaches will be emphasized in assessing the roles and functions of guidance cues. Prerequisite: MBB/BISC 331 and BISC 333 or equivalent and permission of the instructor.
Discussion of recent literature through student seminars and written reports. Introduction to professional skills for scientific careers.
Discussion of recent literature through student seminars and written reports.  Introduction to professional skills for scientific careers. Prerequisite: MBB 801 or an MSc degree.
Oral presentation and defense of a written PhD research proposal. Students will be examined on their progress and grasp of knowledge relevant to the proposed research and their capacity to complete the proposed thesis research. Open only to students in the PhD molecular biology and biochemistry graduate program.
Consideration of methods applied to research in molecular, cellular, and developmental biology; genetics; and biochemistry. Can be repeated with permission of the instructor.
Consideration of methods applied to research in molecular, cellular, and developmental biology; genetics; and biochemistry. Can be repeated with permission of the instructor.
Consideration of methods applied to research in molecular, cellular, and developmental biology; genetics; and biochemistry. Can be repeated with permission of the instructor.
Recent research articles on the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular activities will be presented and discussed by students and faculty, with an emphasis on critical analysis of the concepts and experimental design and methods. Prerequisite: BISC 331/MBB 331 or equivalent. Students who have taken BISC 821, 822 or 823  may not receive credit for this course. A student may not take more than 3 units of Cell and Molecular Biology Colloquium courses, including BISC 821, 822, 823.
Recent research articles on the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular activities will be presented and discussed by students and faculty, with an emphasis on critical analysis of the concepts and experimental design and methods. Prerequisite: BISC 331/MBB 331 or equivalent. Students who have taken BISC 821, 822 or 823  may not receive credit for this course.  A student may not take more than 3 units of Cell and Molecular Biology Colloquium courses, including BISC 821, 822, 823.
Recent research articles on the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular activities will be presented and discussed by students and faculty, with an emphasis on critical analysis of the concepts and experimental design and methods. Prerequisite: BISC 331/MBB 331 or equivalent. Students who have taken BISC 821, 822 or 823  may not receive credit for this course.  A student may not take more than 3 units of Cell and Molecular Biology Colloquium courses, including BISC 821, 822, 823.
The physical properties of biomacromolecules; modern physical methods applied to biomolecules; properties and analysis of membrane systems.
Consideration of important processes for biological energy transduction. Structure/function relationships of membrane components and other interacting macromolecular systems. Cannot be taken for credit in addition to CHEM 825.
The study of enzyme mechanisms by a variety of techniques including spectroscopic, kinetic, radioisotopic exchange, and site-directed mutagenesis.
Application of spectroscopic methods including multidimensional NMR, fluorescence, circular dichroism, and FTIR for determination of biomacromolecular structure. Includes elements of protein conformation.
Consideration of recent literature concerning selected contemporary research topics. Can be taken more than once with permission of the instructor.
Examination of the dynamics of change in eukaryotic nuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplast genome structure and organization.
Examination of the basic methods applicable to analyses of molecular phylogeny and evolution.
Selected topics in the developmental genetics of drosophila.
Selected topics including pattern formation, morphogenetic determinants, inductive interactions, and differential gene expression in embryos.
Consideration of topics related to the structure and function of the genome with emphasis on genome mapping and sequencing projects, and computational methods for genomic sequence analysis.
Consideration of recent literature concerning selected contemporary research topics. Can be taken more than once with permission of instructor.
Recent research articles on the structure, function, and interactions of macromolecules including proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids, as well as their complexes, will be presented and discussed by students and faculty, with an emphasis on critical analysis of the concepts and experimental design and methods. Prerequisite: BISC 331/MBB 331 or equivalent.
Recent research articles on the structure, function, and interactions of macromolecules including proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids, as well as their complexes, will be presented and discussed by students and faculty, with an emphasis on critical analysis of the concepts and experimental design and methods. Prerequisite: BISC 331/MBB 331 or equivalent.
Recent research articles on the structure, function, and interactions of macromolecules including proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids, as well as their complexes, will be presented and discussed by students and facuty, with an emphasis on critical analysis of the concepts and experimental design and methods. Prerequisite: BISC 331/MBB 331 or equivalent.
Programs of directed reading and critical discussions offered by faculty or staff members to individual students according to their needs. Study programs must be approved by the molecular biology and biochemistry graduate studies committee.
Programs of directed reading and critical discussions offered by faculty or staff members to individual students according to their needs. Study programs must be approved by the molecular biology and biochemistry graduate studies committee.
Programs of directed reading and critical discussions offered by faculty or staff members to individual students according to their needs. Study programs must be approved by the molecular biology and biochemistry graduate studies committee.
No description available
No description available
This course will develop understanding of research design from theoretical, analytical, and practical standpoints and provide hands-on experience in a range of social science research techniques. It is designed to prepare MIL students to conduct original, independent research for their internship projects and in their future careers. Greater emphasis will be placed on qualitative than on quantitative research methods.
An advanced course designed to introduce graduate students to international finance issues from a policy perspective. The general orientation of the course is that of the international political economy of finance. From a strong and practical knowledge base, students will be able then to begin to look at applied problems in either Latin America or Asia.
Provides an outline of the main elements to be engaged in interpreting Asia. This course focuses on historical and philosophical issues relating to the understanding of Asia in the context of contemporary global issues.
Provides an outline of the main elements to be engaged in interpreting Latin America. This course focuses on historical and philosophical issues relating to the understanding of Latin America in the context of contemporary global issues.
No description available
No description available
All students in the Master's program in International Leadership will undertake a year long internship. The work they undertake must be of sufficient depth and breadth to allow the student the opportunity to demonstrate his or her acquired knowledge and skills. Students will be required to produce a work report, which will be an appraisal of the student's work experience. Graded S/U.
No description available
Students complete their internship project and work with their supervisory committee to bring it to a final acceptable form.
Students will continue to complete their internship project and work with their supervisory committee to bring it to a final acceptable form. Prerequisite: MIL 808.
An introduction to the basic principles and techniques of public policy analysis and examinatio of current policy issues.
An examination of the basic operation of a market economy and introduction to key economic concepts and techniques.
Application of economic concepts and techniques to a variety of public policy issues.
The first of a two term sequence that examines the basic structures and processes of government in Canada and their context in the evolving Canadian political economy. It also introduces students to key actors in the policy process and examines their structure and behavior. Examples of relevant actors include federal, provincial and local state structures and agencies, and a variety of societal actors such as pressure groups, social movements, think tanks and other associations.
Building upon MPP 803, this course provides a detailed examination of the policy process  the stages through which public policies are developed. The course outlines the nature of the policy cycle and examines the formal and informal institutions and rules that affect policy actors in their deliberations and decisions. Specific attention is paid to the nature of policy communities and policy networks in Canada and their impact upon policy content and policy change.
Surveys graphical, mathematical and statistical tools with applications to policy analysis. Covers graphical techniques; algebraic relationships, descriptive statistics, probability distributions, confidence intervals; definition and interpretation of regression results.
Develops key analytical and practical skills that include use of programs such as Excel and SPSS. Identifies and frames public policy problems and structure effective research questions and study designs. Introduces to methodologies for interviews, focus groups, case studies, surveys, and how to incorporate these data sources into policy research.
Introduces the basic principles and techniques of policy analysis and examination of current public policy issues. A continuation of MPP 800. Prerequisite: MPP 800.
Covers advanced policy analysis techniques applied by students to individual projects on current policy issues. The first course in the project component of the program. Only open to students registered in the MPP program.
Covers advanced policy analysis techniques and applied by students to individual projects on current public policy issues. This course will constitute the project component of the program. Open only to students registered in the MPP program.
Covers topics appropriate to the program but not covered extensively in the core courses.
Covers  topics appropriate to the program but not covered extensively in the core courses.
Covers paradigms for methodological choices and the design of qualitative research for real world public policy applications; critical perspectives of qualitative methods including interviews, focus group discussions, diary methods, visual methods, experimental methods and discourse analysis.
Applies methodologies for causal relationships, covering the steps necessary to do empirical analysis. Introduces econometric methodology; model specification and hypothesis testing to relate quantitative results to policy design. Estimation methods are surveyed and practiced. Prerequisite: MPP 805 and MPP 806, or equivalent.
Theories of public management and different approaches to regulating public enterprise. Contrasts the dominant new public management theory with classical public administration, cultural, representative, and new institutionalism theories. Covers public sector ethics, tragic choices and freedom of information.
Examines the role public participation plays in public policy making and the benefits and challenges associated with 21st century public consultation. Explores public involvement in elections, non-electoral public participation in policy making, and participatory mechanisms including citizens' assemblies and social media.
Overview of aboriginal and First Nations policy issues and policy choices in BC and Canada. Examines demographic trends, social and economic data, and development issues. Rights and title, accommodation and infringement, treaty and self government issues and policies are a focus as well as socio-economic issues and problems, including those of urban people.
Examines the economic foundations of selected global issues with basic analytical tools to evaluate complex arguments. Topics are based on current international issues and cover areas such as financial flows, immigration, technology transfer, multinational companies and their role in economic development. Prerequisite: MPP 801 and MPP 802, or equivalent.
Examines health policy in Canada from a range of perspectives with a focus on the rapidly changing and increasingly politicized health care environment in which efficiency, evidence, and social justice are important driving forces. Compares the Canadian system to the US and other international jurisdictions.
Analysis, formulation, and evaluation of social policies, covering income security benefit programs. A multi-disciplinary approach encompassing economic, political, and operational perspectives that covers social policy analysis as well as the more technical aspects of formulating and evaluating programs. Prerequisite: MPP 801 and MPP 802 or equivalent.
No description available
No description available
Securing compliance represents the bulk of federal government responsibilities. How to manage these powers efficiently and effectively within the context of Canadian values; control social and economic behaviour, manage and mitigate compliance risk.
Theoretical foundations and practical procedures for analysis of public sector projects, programs, and regulations using the tools of multiple accounts and benefit-cost analysis. Critical discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of the techniques. Application of the tools to current policy problems in Canada. Prerequisite: MPP 801 and MPP 802, or equivalent.
Analysis of policy instruments to address environmental problems. Economic valuation of ecosystem goods and services. The political economy of designing and implementing environmental policies and their application with a focus on developing countries. Prerequisite: MPP 801 and MPP 802, or equivalent.
Students who do not have prior work experience in public policy are placed in a public or private organization connected to public policy. The work they undertake must be of sufficient depth and breadth to allow the student the opportunity to demonstrate his or her acquired knowledge and skills. Students will be required to produce a work report that will be an appraisal of the student's work experience.
A seminar primarily for students undertaking a major or an honors program in management and systems science. Prerequisite: Major in Management and Systems Science or permission of the program director. Students with credit for MSSC 480 cannot receive credit for MSSC 180.
A seminar primarily for students undertaking a major or an honors program in management and systems science. Prerequisite: MSSC 180.
This course reviews some fundamental concepts of strategy in the context of technological innovation, examines the role of core competencies in technology development, and identifies and discusses the various components or dimensions that make up a technology strategy. Case studies are used to illustrate theory with application in the e-business context.
In today's age of rapid technological progress, ventures are being created daily to satisfy new business needs. The creation of new technology-based ventures is becoming a more popular career choice for science and technology professionals with entrepreneurial ambition. This is a fast-paced, hands-on course that takes the student through the key stages of new venture creation including researching the product opportunity, protecting the venture's intellectual property, planning the venture's seed and start-up stages, determining the financial needs and resources, developing the business plan and valuing the venture.
The course is focused on the evolution of customer relationship management from mortar and brick establishments to the Web. Focus is on issues of e-loyalty and customer services, as well as current practices.
The human element on the Web is important. In this course focus is on the development of trust in online communities, how virtual teams operate successfully, and ethical issues that impact online interaction, with particular emphasis on e-business.
This course investigates the various information systems and technologies used for implementing knowledge management practices within an organization. It describes a framework for analyzing these knowledge services (KSS). Industry examples of knowledge services are discussed in terms of infrastructure services, core services and packaged services.
Effective strategy is central to e-business success. In this course, emphasis is on examination on various strategies and models as they apply in e-business. Issues, strategic choices and challenges are highlighted related to e-business implementation.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Brief description of the nucleus and its decays and reactions; interaction of radiation with matter; nuclear instrumentation; radioisotopes in chemistry; activation analysis and related analytical techniques; other applications of nuclear techniques; nuclear reactors and nuclear fusion. Prerequisite: completion of 60 units in a science program, including first year calculus, chemistry and physics. Quantitative.
Review of nuclear properties and systematics. Properties of the nuclear force; shell model and structure of complex nuclei, nuclear decay via particle emission and spontaneous fission; experimental description of nuclear reactions; nucleon-nucleus and heavy ion reactions. Prerequisite: NUSC 341 or permission of the department. Recommended: MATH 251. Quantitative.
Formation and distribution of the chemical elements in the early universe, in present stellar environments and in the solar system; elemental abundances and isotopic ratios; and radiometric chronology techniques. Prerequisite: completion of 60 units in a science program, including first year calculus, chemistry and physics. Quantitative.
Introduction to the techniques of radiochemistry; proportional and Geiger counters; sample preparations and half-life measurement; synthesis and separation of labelled compounds; beta and gamma-ray spectroscopy. Prerequisite: NUSC 341. Quantitative.
Advanced topics in nuclear science. Prerequisite: NUSC 342 or 442, or permission of the department.
An introduction to the Persian alphabet, phonology, morphology, and basic syntax, in relation to reading, writing and translating basic sentences. Students with any prior knowledge or experience in Persian beyond the level of this course may not register in this course. Students who have taken LANG 118 with this topic may not take this course for further credit.
An introduction to the evaluation of arguments as they are encountered in everyday life. The central aim will be to sharpen skills of reasoning and argumentation by understanding how arguments work and learning to distinguish those which actually prove what they set out to show from those which do not. Open to all students. Quantitative.
An introduction to some of the central problems of philosophy. Topics to be discussed include the different theories of reality; the nature and sources of knowledge, truth, evidence, and reason; the justification of belief and knowledge about the universe. These topics and problems will be considered as they arise in the context of issues such as: relativism versus absolutism; the existence of God; personal identity; the nature of the mind and its relation to the body; free will and determinism; the possibility of moral knowledge. Open to all students. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
The aim of this course is to familiarize students with fundamental techniques of correct reasoning. Special attention is given to the methods of logic in particular, and to their role in the discovery of truth not only within science and philosophy but within all forms of rational enquiry. Open to all students. Quantitative.
An introduction to the central problems of ethics: for example, the nature of right and wrong, the objectivity or subjectivity of moral judgments, the relativity or absolutism of values, the nature of human freedom and responsibility. The course will also consider general moral views such as utilitarianism, theories of rights and specific obligations, and the ethics of virtue. These theories will be applied to particular moral problems such as abortion, punishment, distributive justice, freedom of speech, and racial and sexual equality. Sometimes the course will also focus on important historical figures such as Plato, Aristotle, Kant and Mill. Open to all students. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
An introduction to philosophical issues concerning the nature of science. Topics to be discussed include the distinction between science and pseudo-science, the nature of scientific method, the nature of explanation in the natural and social sciences, the phenomenon of scientific change, the relationship between scientific theory and observation, and the objectivity of social science. Students who have completed PHIL 244 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Humanities/Science.
A survey of philosophic thought from late antiquity to the Renaissance. Special attention will be given to the works of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Augustine, and Aquinas. The views of these great thinkers have helped to shape the ways in which we see the world. This course is therefore recommended to everyone with an interest in our intellectual heritage. Open to all students. Breadth-Humanities.
A survey of philosophic thought from the Renaissance to the 20th Century. Special attention will be given to the works of Descartes, Leibniz, Spinoza, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant, Hegel and Mill. The views of these great thinkers have helped to shape the ways in which we see the world. This course is therefore recommended to everyone with an interest in our intellectual heritage. Open to all students. Breadth-Humanities.
A critical overview of recent accounts of the nature and scope of human knowledge and of justified or rational belief, and of philosophical issues that these accounts are intended to address. Prerequisite: one of PHIL 100, 150, or 151, or COGS 100. Students who have taken PHIL 301 cannot take this course for further credit.
An examination of central problems of metaphysics such as space and time, universals and particulars, substance, identity and individuation and personal identity. Prerequisite: one of PHIL 100, 150, 151, or COGS 100.
This course studies a natural deductive system of propositional and quantificational logic, the first-order theory of identity and the first-order theory of relations. Topics include the metatheory of propositional logic and the application of formal theory to the assessment of natural language arguments. Quantitative.
This course studies the metatheory of axiomatic propositional and quantificational logic. Topics include proof theory, the metatheory of propositional logic, the proof theory of first-order logic, first-order models, soundness and completeness. Prerequisite: one of PHIL 210, MACM 101, MATH 144, CMPT 205. Quantitative.
An introduction to central problems of political and social philosophy: for example, the basis of political obligation, the proper limits of state power, the appropriate scope of individual liberty, and the nature of social justice. Sometimes the course will focus on the views of historically important political philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Burke, Bentham, Mill and Marx.
A specific topic, philosopher or philosophical work to be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant.
A critical analysis of classic and contemporary arguments concerning the rationality of belief in God, and related issues.
Philosophical themes in the writings of such authors as Voltaire, Turgenev, Dostoevski, Sartre, Camus, Conrad and Golding.
An examination of issues concerning the nature of works of art. The course will include a consideration of rival theories of art such as: art as expression, art as representation, and art as significant form. Theories of aesthetic criticism will be studied in relation to taste, personal experience, and truth.
A study of existentialist philosophers such as Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Sartre, and Camus and a survey of precursors such as Kant and Hegel.
An introductory course specifically intended for students in other departments who have at least 60 units. This course is more advanced than 100 and 200 division courses and is of interest to students not only in the humanities, but also in the natural and social sciences. Prerequisite: at least 60 units. Normally, students with credit for PHIL 100 may not take this course for further credit. This course does not count towards the upper division requirements for a student pursuing a minor, major, or honors program in philosophy. Breadth-Humanities.
An exploration of philosophical issues concerning, e.g.: causation, time, modality, or the self; the realism/nominalism or realism/idealism debate; relativism; the concept of truth; naturalized epistemology; global epistemological skepticism or perhaps a 'local' form of skepticism such as skepticism about induction or about sensory belief. Prerequisite: PHIL 201 or 203.
An examination of one or more topics such as: philosophical logic; deontic logic; the logic of knowledge and belief; the logic of preference; tense logics; foundations of set theory; recursive functions; the history of logic. Recommended: PHIL 210, 214, or an otherwise suitable background.
An examination of an issue or selection of issues in social and political philosophy. Contemporary or historical readings or a mixture of these will be used. Possible topics include: justice, the law and legal systems, sovereignty, power and authority, democracy, liberty and equality. Sometimes the course will focus on the views of historically important political philosophers, such as Plato, Aristotle, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Burke, Bentham, Mill and Marx. Prerequisite: PHIL 120 or 220.
An advanced investigation of central issues and theories in moral philosophy. In any given term, the course may focus on a general theory or concept or concern, for example meta-ethics, utilitarianism, or theories of rights. Sometimes it will focus on a particular problem or problems, such as medical ethics, moral personhood, or free will and moral responsibility. Prerequisite: PHIL 120.
An examination of an issue or selection of issues in the history of moral or political philosophy. Historical readings will be the primary focus and may include important figures such as Aristotle, Hobbes, Locke, Hume, and Kant. Prerequisite: One of PHIL 120, 150, 151, 220.
Ethical issues related to public health as they are located in and influenced by a global context. Consideration of several ethical approaches including utilitarianism, deontic ethics, and the capabilities approach, as well as theories of justice. Application of approaches to topics ranging from global markets in human organs to international migration of health workers and pharmaceutical testing in the developing world. Prerequisite:    60 units  and PHIL 120W    or HSCI 319W.  PHIL 327 is identical to HSCI 320 and students may not receive credit for both. Students who have completed HSCI 320 or the spring 2011 offering of PHIL 331 may not complete this course for further credit.
A survey of contemporary issues in environmental ethics. Topics may include: animal rights, the intrinsic value of nature, 'deep ecology', obligations to future generations, conservation, environmental justice, as well as relevant background materials in ethical theory. Prerequisite:    PHIL 120W.  Students who have complete PHIL 318 may not take this course for further credit.
Prerequisite: as stated by department at time of offering.
Prerequisite: as stated by department at time of offering.
Prerequisite: as stated by department at time of offering.
A study of the nature of scientific enquiry, classificatory systems, laws and theories, the role of observation in science, the demarcation between science and non-science, causality, the status of theoretical constructs, and teleological explanation. Prerequisite: PHIL 100; PHIL 210 or 214; and one of PHIL 201 or 203, or COGS 200.
A study of theories of the mind, consciousness, and human action. Prerequisite: PHIL 100; and one of PHIL 201 or 203, or COGS 200.
An introduction to the major philosophic theories of language. Topics to be considered include the relationship between language and mind, language and the world, language and society. Prerequisite: PHIL 100; and one of PHIL 201 or 203, or COGS 200.
Prerequisite: PHIL 100 or 150.
An examination of some central issues in 17th century philosophy. Themes may include: changing theories of causation, of the mind, and of the relation between mind and world. Historical readings will be the primary focus and may include important figures such as Descartes, Elisabeth of Bohemia, Malebranche, Spinoza, Leibniz, and Locke.  Prerequisite: PHIL 100 or 151. Students who have completed PHIL 353 or PHIL 354 prior to Fall 2006 may not take this course for further credit.
An examination of some central issues of 18th century philosophy. Themes may include the development of the theory of ideas and epistemology associated with it. The primary focus may include important figures such as Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Condillac. Prerequisite: PHIL 100 or 151. Students who have completed PHIL 355 prior to Fall 2006 may not take this course for further credit.
Prerequisite: PHIL 100 or 151.
A highly focussed, advanced examination of a selection of topics in normative or meta-ethics. Prerequisite: one of PHIL 120, 320, or 321. Writing.
A specific topic, philosopher or philosophical work to be dealt with as occasion and demand warrant. Prerequisite: two 300 level Philosophy courses.
Prerequisite:    one of PHIL 350, 352, 356, 357.  Equivalent Courses: PHIL451. Writing.
Prerequisite: two 300 division PHIL courses. Writing.
Prerequisite: two 300 division PHIL courses. Writing.
Prerequisite: PHIL 477 is a requisite for all honors students, and must be taken in one of the last two terms of the student's philosophy program. It must be taken concurrently with or prior to PHIL 478. At least eight weeks prior to the term in which they wish to enrol in PHIL 477, honors students should obtain departmental approval of a proposed syllabus and arrange for faculty supervision of the course. Open only to honors students.
Prerequisite: PHIL 478 is a requisite for all honors students, and must be taken in one of the last two terms of the student's philosophy program. It must be taken concurrently with or consecutively to PHIL 477. At least eight weeks prior to the term in which they wish to enrol in PHIL 478, honors students should obtain departmental approval of a proposed syllabus and arrange for faculty supervision of the course. Open only to honors students.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
A course for students with relatively weak backgrounds in physics. Kinematics and dynamics; waves; optics; electricity and magnetism. Prerequisite: BC Principles of Mathematics 12 (or equivalent) or MATH 100 (may be taken concurrently). BC Physics 11 (or equivalent) is recommended. Students who have obtained a grade of C+ or better in BC high school Physics 12 (or its equivalent) or who have taken any further physics course normally may not take PHYS 100 for credit. Tutorials will be held in the open workshop format, i.e. unstructured periods each week when teaching assistants are available to answer questions and help with problem assignments.
Force and motion, conservation of energy and momentum, fluids, properties of soft matter and thermal physics with applications taken from the life sciences. Prerequisite: BC Principles of Physics 12 or PHYS 100 or equivalent. This prerequisite may be waived, at the discretion of the department, as determined by the student's performance on a regularly scheduled PHYS 100 final exam. Please consult the physics advisor for further details. Corequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 or 157; BISC 100 or 101 or 102. Students with credit for PHYS 120, 125 or 140  may not take PHYS 101 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Waves and optics; electricity and magnetism; modern physics emphasizing radioactivity, with applications taken from the life sciences. Prerequisite: PHYS 101 or 120 or 125 or 140. Students with credit for PHYS 121, 126, or 141 may not take PHYS 102 for further credit. Recommended corequisite: MATH 152 or 155 or 158. Students are encouraged to take PHYS 130 at the same time as PHYS 102. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A general calculus-based introduction to mechanics. Topics include translational and rotational motion, momentum, energy, gravitation, and selected topics in modern physics. Prerequisite: BC Principles of Physics 12 or PHYS 100 or equivalent. This prerequisite may be waived, at the discretion of the department, as determined by the student's performance on a regularly scheduled PHYS 100 final exam. Please consult the physics advisor for further details. Corequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 must precede or be taken concurrently. Students with credit for PHYS 101, 125 or 140 may not take PHYS 120 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A general calculus-based introduction to electricity, magnetism and optics. Topics include electricity, magnetism, simple circuits, optics and topics from applied physics. Prerequisite: PHYS 120 or 125 or 140 (or PHYS 101 with a grade of A or B). Students with credit for PHYS 102, 126 or 141 may not take PHYS 121 for further credit. Corequisite: MATH 152 or 155 must precede or be taken concurrently. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
Newtonian mechanics and special relativity for students with good preparation in physics and mathematics. Topics include Newtonian particle mechanics, angular momentum, torque, conservation laws, gravitation, and special relativity. Prerequisite: greater than 85% in both BC Principles of Mathematics 12 and BC Principles of Physics 12, or a grade of A in PHYS 100, or equivalent. Corequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 must precede or be taken concurrently. Students with credit for PHYS 101, 120 or PHYS 140 may not take PHYS 125 for further credit. Quantitative.
Electricity, magnetism, and the electromagnetic character of light for students with good preparation in physics and mathematics. Topics include waves, simple electrical circuits, electricity, magnetism, the unifications of electromagnetism in relativity, light as an electromagnetic wave, and photons. Prerequisite: PHYS 125 or a grade of A or better in PHYS 120 or 140. Corequisite: MATH 152 or 155 must precede or be taken concurrently. Students with credit in PHYS 102, 121 or 141 may not take PHYS 126 for further credit. Quantitative.
Elementary experiments in optics, electricity, mechanics and heat that are designed to augment the general survey course. Prerequisite: PHYS 102 should be taken concurrently or may precede; or by permission of the department. Students with credit for PHYS 131 or 141 may not take PHYS 130 for further credit. Quantitative.
Elementary experiments in optics, electricity, and mechanics that are designed to augment the general survey courses. Prerequisite: PHYS 121 or 126 should be taken concurrently or may precede; or by permission of the department. Students with credit for PHYS 130 or 141 may not take PHYS 131 for further credit. Quantitative.
A general calculus-based introduction to mechanics taught in an integrated lecture-laboratory environment. Topics include translational and rotational motion, momentum, energy, gravitation, and selected topics in modern physics. Prerequisite: BC Principles of Physics 12, or equivalent. Corequisite: MATH 150 or 151 or 154 must precede or be taken concurrently. Students with credit for PHYS 125 or 120 or 101 may not take PHYS 140 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A general calculus-based introduction to electricity, magnetism and optics taught in an integrated lecture-laboratory environment. Topics include electricity, magnetism, simple circuits, optics and topics from applied physics. Prerequisite: PHYS 140. Corequisite: MATH 152 or 155 must precede or be taken concurrently. Students with credit for PHYS 126 or 121 or 102 may not take PHYS 141 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
A survey of astronomy designed primarily for non-science students, with a strong emphasis on active learning outside the classroom. Covers the development of astronomy from the ancient Greeks through the Renaissance, to the modern view of the cosmos as revealed by the scientific method. Topics include naked-eye observation of the night sky, modern observational equipment and techniques, the solar system, stellar evolution, galaxies, the Hubble expansion, the Big Bang, dark matter, dark energy, and startling new theories of the origin and destiny of the universe. Experiential activities involve active observations of the moon, stars and planets, and introductory experiments in some of the basic physics that astronomers use to explore the cosmos. Students who have received credit for PHYS 130, 131 or 141 may not take PHYS 190 for further credit. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
An exploration of the production, propagation and perception of sound and music from an interdisciplinary perspective. The viewpoints of a professional musician and a physicist will be presented and compared. Topics include elementary acoustics, instrument characteristics, reproduction technologies, tonal anomalies and perception. Breadth-Science.
An intermediate mechanics course covering kinematics, dynamics, calculus of variations and Lagrange's equations, non-inertial reference frames, central forces and orbits, and rigid body motion. Prerequisite: PHYS 126 or 121 or 141. Corequisite: MATH 251; MATH 232 or 240. Recommended: MATH 310 and PHYS 255. Quantitative.
Electrostatics, magnetostatics, capacitance, inductance, concepts of electric and magnetic fields, Maxwell's equations. Prerequisite: PHYS 126 or 121 or 141; MATH 251. Quantitative.
Introductory physics laboratory with experiments chosen from mechanics, heat, optics, electricity, magnetism, properties of matter, atomic and nuclear physics, along with lectures on the use of computers for data acquisition and data analysis in the physics laboratory. Prerequisite: PHYS 141 or 131 or 130. Students who have successfully completed PHYS 234 may not receive additional credit for this course. Quantitative.
Experiments chosen from among mechanics, heat, optics, electricity, magnetism, properties of matter, atomic and nuclear physics. Engineering Science students will do a selected set of experiments. Prerequisite: PHYS 231 or ENSC 220. Quantitative.
The physics of vibrations and waves. Topics include periodic motion, including free and forced oscillations, coupled oscillators, normal modes, and waves in one and higher dimensions. Prerequisite: PHYS 126 or 121 or 141; or PHYS 101 and 102 with a grade of B or better. Corequisite: MATH 251; MATH 232 or 240. Recommended concurrent: PHYS 211 and MATH 310. Quantitative.
Special relativity, including relativistic kinematics and dynamics; tests of relativity; matter waves and early quantum models; wave mechanics and its application to molecular, atomic and subatomic systems. Prerequisite: PHYS 255. Quantitative.
Development and application of Maxwell's equations in vector differential form. Notation and theorems of vector calculus; electric charge, fields, potentials, capacitance and field energy; conductors; methods for solving electrostatic problems; electric fields in matter; electrical current and the magnetic field; Ampere's law and the vector potential; magnetic fields in matter; electromotive force, electrical resistance, Faraday's law and inductance; Maxwell's correction to Ampere's law and electromagnetic waves. Prerequisite: PHYS 130 or 131 or 141; MATH 252 or 254; MATH 310. Students with credit for PHYS 221 may not take PHYS 321 for further credit. Quantitative.
Circuits and circuit theory, passive and active devices, amplifiers, feedback, modern measurement techniques and instrumentation. Prerequisite: PHYS 231 and 255. Quantitative.
Experiments in optics and modern physics, including diffraction, interference, spectroscopy, lasers and holography. Engineering Science students will do a selected set of experiments. Prerequisite: PHYS 233 and 285, or equivalent. Writing/Quantitative.
This is the first term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to students who are studying physics or related areas, such as biophysics, chemical physics or mathematical physics. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: completion of 30 units, with a minimum GPA of 2.75 in the physics program. Students should apply to the department at least one term in advance. A course fee is required. This course is evaluated on a pass/withdrawal basis.
This is the second term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to students who are studying physics or related areas, such as biophysics, chemical physics or mathematical physics. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: PHYS 335 followed by 12 units. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the department at least one term in advance. A course fee is required. This course is evaluated on a pass/withdrawal basis.
Heat, temperature, heat transfer, kinetic theory, laws of thermodynamics, entropy, heat engines, applications of thermodynamics to special systems, phase transitions. Prerequisite: PHYS 126 or 121, MATH 251. Quantitative.
The physical principles and limitations of renewable energy source utilization and energy conversion. A quantitative introduction to energy conversion and storage systems, including solar power and heating; wind, tidal, geothermal, hydroelectric and nuclear power, hydrogen technology, electrical and mechanical energy storage. Prerequisite: CHEM 120 or 121; PHYS 102 or 121 or 126 or 141; and MATH 155 or 152. Quantitative.
A physics perspective on cellular structure and composition; random walks and diffusion; properties of fluids, cell motion; entropy and the properties of soft materials; structure and function of proteins; signal propagation in nerves. Prerequisite: completion of 45 units including CHEM 122, MATH 152 (or 155), PHYS 121 (or 102 or 126 or 141). Recommended: BISC 101. Quantitative.
Structure and properties of semiconductors, semiconductor theory, theory and operation of semiconductor devices, semiconductor device technology. Prerequisite: PHYS 321 or 221; PHYS 255 or ENSC 380. PHYS 321, ENSC 380, and PHYS 365 may be taken concurrently.  Students with credit for ENSC 224 may not take PHYS 365 for further credit. Recommended: PHYS 285. Quantitative.
Comprehensive overview of nuclear and particle physics with emphasis on concepts: the constituents of matter and the fundamental forces; properties and structure of nuclei and the nucleon; the Standard Model; experimental techniques. Prerequisite: PHYS 285 or CHEM 260 or NUSC 341. Quantitative.
Applications of mathematical methods in physics, differential equations of physics, eigenvalue problems, solutions to wave equations. Prerequisite: MATH 252 or 254; MATH 310; PHYS 255 or ENSC 380. Corequisite: PHYS 211. Quantitative.
Wave mechanics and the Schroedinger equation, the harmonic oscillator, introduction to Dirac notation, angular momentum and spin, the hydrogen atom, atomic structure, time-independent perturbation theory, atomic spectra, and applications. Prerequisite: MATH 252 or 254; PHYS 285 or ENSC 380 or CHEM 260. Corequisite: PHYS 211; MATH 310. Quantitative.
Characteristics of stars and their evolution, thermodynamics of stellar interior, origin of the elements, galaxies, cosmology, and origin of the planets. Prerequisite: PHYS 211 and either CHEM 120 or 121. Quantitative.
Computer based approaches to the solution of complex physical problems. A partial list of topics includes: Monte-Carlo and molecular dynamics techniques applied to thermal properties of materials; dynamical behavior of conservative and dissipative systems, including chaotic motion; methods for ground state determination and optimization, including Newton-Raphson, simulated annealing, neural nets, and genetic algorithms; the analysis of numerical data; and the use of relevant numerical libraries. Prerequisite: MATH 310, PHYS 211, CMPT 101 or 102. Recommended: PHYS 344 or equivalent. Quantitative.
Central forces, rigid body motion, small oscillations. Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of mechanics. Prerequisite: PHYS 384 or permission of the department. Non-physics majors may enter with MATH 252, 310 and PHYS 211. Quantitative.
Foundations of quantum mechanics, time-dependent perturbation theory, radiation, variational methods, scattering theory, advanced topics, and applications. Prerequisite: PHYS 385 and either PHYS 384 or MATH 314 and 419. Quantitative.
A continuation of PHYS 321: properties of electromagnetic waves and their interaction with matter. Transmission lines and waveguides; antennas, radiation and scattering; propagation of electromagnetic waves in free space and in matter; reflection and refraction at boundaries; polarization, interference and diffraction. Prerequisite: PHYS 321 or (PHYS 221 and either MATH 252 or 254); PHYS 255 or ENSC 380. Students with credit for PHYS 324 or 425 may not take PHYS 421 for further credit. Quantitative.
Digital logic design with particular apparatus. Construction and use of interface devices for various laboratory experiments. Prerequisite: PHYS 326 or permission of the instructor. Quantitative.
Advanced experiments in Physics. May include special projects. Prerequisite: PHYS 385 and either PHYS 332 or (PHYS 326 and 465). Quantitative.
Undergraduate research and preparation of an honours thesis. The research project may be in experimental or theoretical physics. Prospective students must obtain agreement of a faculty member willing to supervise the project, and submit the project to the physics department for approval at least two months prior to enrolling for the course. The research must be done during the term in which the student is enrolled for the course, and may not be part of a co-op practicum. The course will be graded on the basis of the honours thesis, which must be submitted before the end of the term. Prerequisite: all students interested in taking this course must consult with their faculty supervisor regarding prerequisites; normally requires PHYS 431.
Experiments in biological and soft condensed matter physics including investigation of Brownian motion, molecular order and biophysical forces using techniques such as optical trapping, NMR, spectroscopy and x-ray diffraction. Attention will also be given to more general skills, including experimental design, operating and troubleshooting experimental equipment, data analysis, and the presentation of experimental results. Prerequisite: PHYS 231 or MBB 309; PHYS 344 or PHYS 347 or MBB 323 or CHEM 360, or permission of the department. Quantitative.
This is the third term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to students who are studying physics or related areas, such as biophysics, chemical physics or mathematical physics. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: PHYS 336 and 60 units with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the department at least one term in advance. A course fee is required. This course is evaluated on a pass/withdrawal basis.
This is the fourth term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to students who are studying physics or related areas, such as biophysics, chemical physics or mathematical physics. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: PHYS 435 followed by 12 units. A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the department at least one term in advance. A course fee is required. This course is evaluated on a pass/withdrawal basis.
This is an optional fifth term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to students who are studying physics or related areas such as biophysics, chemical physics or mathematical physics. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: PHYS 436 and a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the department at least one term in advance. A course fee is required. This course is evaluated on a pass/withdrawal basis.
Postulates of statistical mechanics, partition functions, applications to gases, paramagnetism and equilibrium. Quantum statistics and applications. Prerequisite: PHYS 344 or CHEM 360. Recommended: PHYS 385. Quantitative.
Optical physics, including geometrical and physical optics, waves in anisotropic media, coherence, image formation and Fourier optics, guided wave optics and selected advanced topics such as lasers, nonlinear optics, photonics and quantum optics. Prerequisite: PHYS 321 or 221. Corequisite: PHYS 385. Quantitative.
Crystal structure, lattice vibrations and thermal properties of solids, free electron model, band theory, and applications. Prerequisite: PHYS 385. Quantitative.
Nonlinear mechanics, nonlinear lattice dynamics, competition phenomena, applications in optics and chemistry, forced oscillations, chaos. Prerequisite: PHYS 384 or permission of the department. Quantitative.
Physics of elementary particles. Symmetries, strong interactions, electromagnetic interactions, weak interactions. Prerequisite: PHYS 385 or CHEM 464 or permission of the department. Recommended: PHYS 380. Students with credit for NUSC 485 may not take this course for further credit. Quantitative.
Gravity and space-time, Einstein's equations and their solution, tests of relativity, black holes, stellar equilibrium and collapse, and cosmological models. Prerequisite: PHYS 285 or MATH 471; PHYS 384. Quantitative.
Studies in areas not included within the undergraduate course offerings of the Department of Physics. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
Studies in areas not included within the undergraduate course offerings of the Department of Physics. Prerequisite: permission of the department.
No description available
Discussion of recent developments in physics, based on student seminars. Attendance is required for all first and second year students proceeding toward MSc or PhD degrees in physics. Course offered regularly.
Advanced non-relativistic and some basic relativistic quantum mechanics: symmetries, Schroedinger/Heisenberg pictures, mixtures, variational and perturbative methods, Dirac equation. Prerequisite: PHYS 415, or equivalent.
A selection of topics which could include: foundations of quantum mechanics, quantum information theory, Bell's inequality, electron in a magnetic field, formal scattering theory, and others of current interest. Prerequisite: PHYS 810 or equivalent.
A first course in relativistic Quantum Field Theory (QFT), specifically Quantum Electrodynamics (QED). The basic formalism underlying QED is developed, generalizing the canonical quantization procedure of Schroedinger quantum mechanics. Feynman diagrams and rules are derived and applied at leading order to several fundamental processes. An introduction to ultraviolet infinities and the renormalization of QED is given. Renormalization is illustrated by calculations of the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron and the Lamb shift. Prerequisite: PHYS 810 or equivalent.
Advanced topics in classical electromagnetic theory: review of Maxwell's equations, wave propagation, radiation theory, special relativity and electromagnetic theory, magnetohydrodynamics and plasma physics, radiation damping. Course offered regularly. Prerequisite: PHYS 421, or equivalent.
Review of ensembles and thermodynamics, ideal gases, imperfect classical gases, classical and modern theories of phase transitions, renormalization group. Course offered regularly. Prerequisite:    PHYS 445 or equivalent.
Nonlinear dynamics and chaos. Pattern formation and an introduction to turbulence. Prerequisite: PHYS 384 or equivalent.
An introduction to one of several topics in soft-condensed matter and biological physics. Recent versions of this course have focused on polymers, liquid crystals, structures of biological membranes, and cell mechanics. Corequisite: PHYS 841.
Free electron theory, crystal structure, band theory, Bloch's theorem, electron dynamics, phonons, semiconductors. Course offered regularly. Prerequisite: PHYS 465 or equivalent, and PHYS 415.
Special topics in solid state physics such as superconductivity, magnetism, optical properties of solids, electron correlations. Course offered regularly. Prerequisite: PHYS 861.
Review of surface science techniques: Auger, XPS electron spectroscopies, low energy electron diffraction (LEED), high energy electron diffraction (RHEED), Scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM). Review of thin film deposition techniques: molecular beam epitaxy of metallic and semiconductor multilayer and superlattice structures. Physics and chemistry of surfaces and interfaces. Course offered occasionally. Prerequisite: PHYS 810, 821, 861 or permission of the department.
The application of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and x-ray diffraction techniques to the study of the structure of materials. Hands-on instruction about the operation of a TEM and x-ray diffractometers is provided. The basic theory required for analyzing TEM and x-ray images and diffraction data is described. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor.
Elementary particle phenomenology; classification of particles, forces, conservation laws, relativistic scattering theory, electromagnetic interactions of leptons and hadrons, weak interactions, gauge theories, strong interactions. Course offered occasionally.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
A comprehensive introduction to the study of politics and government for both political science majors and students specializing in other disciplines. The course will explore the major concepts, methods, approaches and issues in political science, as well as the primary components of government structure and the political process. POL 101W is the Writing certified version of POL 100 and students cannot receive credit for both courses. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A comprehensive introduction to the study of politics and government for both political science majors and students specializing in other disciplines. Explores the major concepts, methods, approaches and issues in political science, as well as the primary components of government structure and the political process. This course is identical to POL 100 and students may not take both courses for credit. Writing/Breadth-Social Sciences.
The development of laws and their application to the citizen and social groups. Special consideration will be given to civil liberties. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to quantitative research techniques in political science. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or 151 or permission of department. Students with credit for IS 240, POL 213 or SA 255 may not take POL 201 for further credit. Quantitative.
Approaches to political science research design methods. Covers causality, conceptualization and analysis; literature reviews; and the logic behind different choices of methodology. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W.
An examination of concepts presented by the major political thinkers of the western world. The course surveys those ideas which remain at the root of our political institutions, practices and ideals against a background of the periods in which they were expressed. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or permission of department. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An examination of selected contemporary political controversies that raise fundamental ethical issues. Discussion will be informed by contending perspectives in modern political philosophy. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or permission of department. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to the institutional order and political structure of the Canadian state. The course will include topics such as the constitution, parliament, cabinet, judiciary, public service and federal-provincial relations. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or 151 or permission of department.
An introduction to the social and participatory basis of Canadian politics, covering topics such as political culture, regionalism and other political divisions, political parties, elections, interest groups and new social movements. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or 151 or permission of department.
An introductory study of Canada's political economy, stressing the interrelated nature of Canada's economic and political life. The course focuses on current economic problems and policies, taking into account the geographical, historical and political environments. Topics include the resource and industrial structures, research and development, the public sector, fiscal and monetary policy, the role of the state, trade and foreign ownership, energy, regional disparity, corporate concentration and the political economy of federalism. This course is identical to CNS 280 and students cannot take both courses for credit. Recommended: POL 100 or 101W. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to political processes and structures in comparative perspective. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or permission of department. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An examination of the American political system, including the presidency, the congress, the courts, the bureaucracy and the party system. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or permission of the department. Students who have credit for POL 332 may not take POL 232 for further credit.
Theory and practice of international politics, diplomacy, hot war, cold war, alliances and the role of leaders. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or permission of department. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to the basic elements of public administration in the government of Canada, including the organization of the public service, planning and financial administration, personnel administration, collective bargaining and administrative regulation. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or 151 or permission of department.
The political process in the urban municipality from a comparative perspective. Prerequisite: POL 100 or 101W or 151 or permission of department. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Explores the political dimensions of public policy making in Canada. Reviews theories and techniques in policy analysis, and focuses on the contemporary dynamics of public policy in various economic and social sectors from the point of view of political ideas, interests, institutions, and decision-making. Prerequisite: POL 100 or POL 101W or permission of the department. Students who have taken POL 351 may not take this course for further credit.
First term of work experience in the Political Science Co-operative Education program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: 30 units with a CGPA of 3.0. Transfer students must complete at least 15 units at Simon Fraser University.
Second term of work experience in the Political Science Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: POL 290; 45 units with a CGPA of 3.0.
No description available
Third term of work experience in the Political Science Co-operative Education program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: POL 291, 60 units, and a minimum CGPA of 3.0.
Central texts in the ancient political thought of the west, as well as important and controversial contemporary perspectives on these texts. In addition to texts by Plato and Aristotle, students will examine commentaries by Allan Bloom, Jacques Derrida, Susan Moller Okin, and Martha Nussbaum. Prerequisite: POL 210 and three additional lower division political science units or permission of the department. Students who have taken Selected Topics course POL 319 with this topic may not take this course for further credit.
A discussion of selected political philosophers in the western tradition from Hobbes to Rawls. Prerequisite: POL 210 or equivalent, or permission of the department.
Discussion of the major political ideologies in western political systems: liberalism, conservatism, the new right, socialism and social democracy, feminism and environmentalism. Emphasis is placed on their conceptual foundations and contemporary expressions. Prerequisite: POL 210 or 312  or permission of the department.
A discussion of issues in the philosophy of the social sciences which are relevant to the study of politics and a critical evaluation of contemporary approaches to political inquiry, including empirical theory, rational choice theory and hermeneutics. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department. Quantitative.
An examination of the principal methods of empirical research in political science. This course is equivalent to SA 355. Prerequisite: POL 201, or SA 255 or STAT 203 (formerly 103). Students who have completed POL 315 may not take SA 355 for further credit. Quantitative.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Development of the federal system including topics such as the division of powers, parties, federal-provincial relations and theories of federalism. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Development of the Canadian party system. Party ideologies, organization, campaigns and elections. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
An analysis of the Canadian constitution from a theoretical and comparative perspective. Amendment, entrenchment, civil rights. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
In an era of globalization, what scope remains for national politics? Does globalization lead to a deficit of democracy? This course examines the challenge that globalization poses for the Canadian political system. Emphasis is placed on globalization's impact on the organization, activities and role of Canadian State. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
An examination of the political development of China in modern times with special emphasis on political culture and its relationship to political institutions, political processes and political behavior. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Nationalist movements and intrastate ethnic conflict around the globe. It begins with an overview of nationalism, including its historical emergence, its roots, and different types. It then moves on to ethnic conflict, focusing on its sources and potential solutions to this problem. Prerequisite: POL 201 and three additional lower division political science units or permission of the department. Students who have taken Selected Topics course POL 339 with this topic may not take this course for further credit. Writing/Quantitative.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Problems arising from the disparities in power and wealth between the highly industrialized countries of Europe and North America, and the under-industrialized countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
An introduction to the study of the international political economy, with an emphasis on the interaction between the state and markets, and the basic political-institutional relationships of trade, money and finance, international investment, foreign debt and foreign aid. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Sovereignty, nationality, jurisdiction, arbitration. Examination of selected cases exemplifying present trends in the international legal order. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
An examination of the structures and processes and the main substantive decisions of the United Nations and related international organizations. Based upon in-depth study of the UN Charter, the Security Council, General Assembly, Secretary-general and Secretariat and their constitutional and political interactions since 1945, with special attention to the theory and practice of international organization advanced by the principal Western countries, the Soviet Union and Soviet bloc, the People's Republic of China and leading Third World countries. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
An overview of Canadian foreign policy post World War II. Various perspectives are discussed including realism, economic nationalism, liberal internationalism and political economy/dependency analysis. A variety of analytical perspectives are used to examine issue-areas such as foreign trade including the role of NAFTA, defence policy and alliance relations, foreign investment, foreign aid, immigration policy, energy policy and the role of domestic political factors in foreign policy decision-making. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines the origins  and causes of  several major conflicts during the last century. This course  reviews various theories on the causes of conflict and war in the international system. It also examines the techniques of preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping, crisis management and coercive diplomacy  as they have been used to try to forestall open warfare and maximize the opportunities for peaceful change and the negotiated resolution of international disputes. Both documentary and feature films will be used to illustrate many types of conflict and warfare in the international system. Course simulations, when employed, will concentrate on the problems and risks that are involved in international efforts to contain and reverse the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines issues where ideas about males and females either explicitly or implicitly influence policy makers. Focuses on current public policies and their relationship to women on topics such as sexuality and violence, economic security, race and inequality, and climate change. Prerequisite: 30 units. This course is identical to WS 350 and students may not take both courses for credit. Students who have taken this topic under GSWS 320 (or WS 320) may not take this course for further credit.
A comparative study of local government in Vancouver, Winnipeg and Toronto. The non partisan tradition and interest groups. Relations with other levels of government. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
A comparative analysis of regional metropolitan governance in Canada and selected other jurisdictions (such as the USA, UK, etc.). The course involves an examination of major policy dilemmas in urban development, and of the local, regional and senior intergovernmental relations within which much of the public policy making in metropolitan settings takes place. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines the ways in which economic and political forces are constantly changing the nature of work. The focus will be on both paid and unpaid labor; the problems of inequality; and the ways in which workers have organized to protect their interests. The course material will deal mainly, although not exclusively, with the political economy of labor in contemporary Canada. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Explores what is involved in shifting the focus in the security realm from 'national interest' to the safety and needs of humans. Addresses several contemporary issues of human insecurity such as genocide, terrorism, civil wars and other complex emergencies; the political economy of conflict (small arms, "blood" diamonds); 'new' inequalities (economic, gender, class, ethnicity); and new health risks (e.g. HIV/AIDS, SARS, ecological degradation). Considers recent initiatives and trends that have emerged to deal with these issues (e.g. humanitarian intervention, International Criminal Court, new coalitions of state and non-state actors such as the Ottawa Process on anti-personnel mines). Prerequisite: six lower division units in Political Science or permission of the department. Students who have taken POL 349 'Special Topics' for credit under this title may not take this course for further credit.
Considers Africa in the historical development of the modern global political economy, from the transatlantic slave trade to the present. Examines contemporary issues associated with Africa in the neo-liberal world order and the politics of resistance and alternative pathways or models of development. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
The political system of Japan, including an analysis of political culture, political institutions, political behavior and both formal and informal political processes. Emphasis will be placed on the pre-World War II political development of Japan. Prerequisite: six lower division units in political science or permission of the department.
Fourth term of work experience in the Political Science Co-operative Education Program. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the preceding term. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an SFU degree. Prerequisite: POL 301, 75 units, and a minimum CGPA of 3.0.
Advanced seminar examining selected themes, debates and texts in recent normative political philosophy, with an emphasis on contemporary democratic theory. Prerequisite: POL 210 or 312 or 313; or permission of the department.
A critical examination of the development of liberalism from classical liberalism (e.g. John Locke) to contemporary conflict between revisionist and neo-classical or libertarian currents. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
This course will examine the works of major feminist thinkers and the problems of developing feminist theory. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
This course introduces students to the problems involved in the assertion of universal moral standards across political and cultural divides. These issues will be explored at a theoretical level, and in the context of specific human rights controversies. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department. Recommended: PHIL 220 or 320.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
The course traces the evolution of Canadian thinking on national international security issues through an examination of pre-World War II isolationism, elite attitudes during the Cold War, the formative period of NATO, as well as Canadian involvement in the Korean and Indochina conflicts. More recent policies concerning ALCM testings, NORAD, and nuclear non-proliferation will also be explored in detail. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
The legislature, political parties, pressure groups, relations with other governments, and other aspects of the policy process. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
An examination of the political culture and institutions in the province of Quebec with particular emphasis on the period since 1960. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
The study of political attitudes and behavior in Canada. Topics will include political culture, public opinion, elections and voting behavior. Prerequisite: POL 201 and eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department. Quantitative.
The study of political attitudes and behavior in Canada. Topics will include political culture, public opinion, elections and voting behavior. Prerequisite: POL 201 and eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department. Writing/Quantitative.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Comparative analysis of federations such as the Canadian, American, West German, Yugoslavian, Soviet, Indian and Swiss. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
An examination of the processes by which governments are created, maintained, and destroyed in democratic systems. The effects of different regime types, electoral arrangements, and party systems will be highlighted. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Explores the ways in which globalization is affecting processes of governance. By focusing on specific issue areas such as economics, security, human rights, basic need (health and environment), it considers alterations in the role and form of states ad well as changes in relations among state, business and civil society sectors. Explores changes at the national level, but also examines the growing relevance of interactivity between the national and other levels of governance from local through international, regional and global, the enhanced role of non-state actors in formal governance procedures, and processes of "governance without government". Prerequisite: 8 upper division units in Political Science or permission of the department. Students who have taken POL 438 or 439 for credit under this title may not take this course for further credit.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
A comparison of the foreign policies of selected political systems. Subjects treated include the domestic and foreign determinants of foreign policy decisions, the mobilization and application of resources to influence international politics, and the consequences of foreign policy decisions and strategies. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Provides an overview of the evolution of US and Soviet strategic policies since World War II. The political and doctrinal bases of national strategic debates are closely examined, as are the various obstacles to a more stable international arms control regime for nuclear weapons. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines US foreign policy in the post World War II era. Topics to be covered will include the formation of foreign policy, 20th century American security issues, alliance relations, crisis management and international economic relations. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
An overview and analysis of international relations in East Asia. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
An examination of the major theories of international political economy, and their application to such issues as the politics of trade, aid, monetary relations, and transnational corporations. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines the conceptual, philosophical and practical aspects of public policy analysis as it is conducted in government, universities, interest groups and policy research institutes. Specific attention is paid to the question of the role of policy research in the process of public policy making and the design of government programs and services. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines the politics and policies of energy, including historical and technical perspectives. Topics include alternative energy, climate change, regulatory policy, and the economics of energy, as well as practical case studies.   Students who have completed POL 459 in 2009 and 2010 may not complete this course for further credit. Writing.
This course will link differing theoretical perspectives and concepts currently used in public policy studies to an understanding of public policy making in urban governance. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Survey of the concepts and theoretical approaches, from Adam Smith's political economy to contemporary paradigms, used to understand the role and place of state institutions In a market economy and of the criteria that are used to design and implement economic and social policies. Particular attention is paid to the philosophical and normative questions that are raised by such an analysis. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines and compares the various means at the disposal of government for implementing policy options, including regulation, the creation or privatization of public enterprises, the delivery or contracting out of services, taxation and tax expenditures, and any other administrative or legislative processes that governments in Canada and/or in similar countries have used to manage the economy or effect social change. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department. Students who have completed POL 355 prior to September 2008 may not take this course for credit.
Examines challenges posed by the development of new technologies and the controversies associated with innovation policy. Prerequisite:    eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
This course is intended to offer students an opportunity to reflect upon the challenges posed by the development of new technologies, the emergence of new movements and the uncertainties attendant to social and political conflicts associated with policy issues about which experts differ in significant ways. Prerequisite:    eight upper division units in policial science or permission of the department.   Writing.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Covers African social and political thought (including that of the Diaspora) since the nineteenth century. Includes approaches such as 'traditional' philosophy, the writing of history, and the specific problems of understanding the history of political thought in the context of a 'post-colonial' society. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Deals with the governance implications of ongoing developments in political economy in the NAFTA area. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Examines the impact of identity politics on the dynamics and organization of political systems. topics include the impact of ethnic, racial and/or religious diversity on modes of political representation, the formation of public policy, and the quest for political stability and national identity. Prerequisite: eight upper division units in political science or permission of the department.
Students may extend a major term paper for a class with intensive instruction and feedback from the instructor to receive extra credit. May only be taken twice. Prerequisite: 90 units. By application to the undergraduate chair.
This courses involves interpretation of, and expansion on, practical experience in political life, under the supervision of a single faculty member.  Students enrolling in the course must have their program of practical experience and academic writing assignments approved by both the supervisor and the department's undergraduate committee prior to enrolment. Prerequisite: Permission of the department; CGPA of 3.0; upper division GPA of 3.33. Students may count only one POL 497 towards meeting their upper division political science requirements. This course is available only for POL majors.
Directed readings in a selected field of study under the direction of a single faculty member. A paper will be required. Students enrolling in this course must have their program of readings approved (by the supervising instructor and the undergraduate studies committee) prior to enrolment. Prerequisite: permission of the department. Students may count only one readings course as credit towards their upper division political science requirements.
Prerequisite: permission of the department (see regulations listed in the Department of Political Science section).
Students with credit for POL 813 may not take this course for further credit.
No description available
A survey of the principles and techniques of qualitative research design, methods, and data collection tools needed to conduct systematic qualitative political science research.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Deals with the governance implications of ongoing developments in political economy in the NAFTA area.
Provides a perspective on global political economy informed by the historical experiences of the 'south.' Examines the making of the third world from a historical perspective and engages with key contemporary issues in understanding development through the global political economy.
This is a selected topics course.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Students with credit for POL 837 may not take this course for further credit.
Introduces Africana social and political thought from the nineteenth century to the present. Examines a range of Africana political traditions, thinkers and texts, organized around specific themes: transatlantic slavery, the colonial encounter, self-determination and sovereignty, politics and society, questions of race and gender.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Acquaints the student with the major issues in contemporary psychology and considers the historical antecedents. Special attention is given to questions of methodology and research design in psychology. Topics in physiological psychology, perception, learning and motivation are considered. Students with credit for PSYC 101 may not take PSYC 100 for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Acquaints the student with major issues in contemporary psychology and considers their historical antecedents. Topics in learning, cognition, social psychology and abnormal psychology are considered. Recommended: PSYC 100 is recommended but not required. Students with credit for PSYC 101 may not take PSYC 102 for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Relates contemporary knowledge from psychology to current social problems. Provides relevant information from studies pertaining to problems such as attitude development, prejudice, race relations, addiction, behavior technology, and family pathology. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Introduces the student to issues in Psychology by surveying the research on brain and behaviour and the implications of this work for individuals and society. Beginning with neurons, this course explores the transition to human experience.   Students with credit for PSYC X99 or X99W may not complete this course for further credit Writing/Breadth-Science
An introduction to the procedures used in psychological research, and to the logic underlying them. Topics include the strengths and weaknesses of different approaches to research, the formulation of testable questions, the control of extraneous influences, the measurement of effects, and the drawing of valid conclusions from empirical evidence. Provides a background for senior psychology courses since it offers a basis for the critical evaluation and conduct of research. Prerequisite: PSYC 100 or 102 (or PSYC 101). See the Letters of Permission section within the undergraduate Department of Psychology. Writing/Quantitative.
Covers basic descriptive and inferential techniques most appropriately applied to the various forms of data from psychological research. Should be completed by majors and honors before the end of term 4. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and BC high school Math 11 with a minimum grade of B-. See the Letters of Permission section within the undergraduate Department of Psychology. Quantitative.
Introduction to the study of cognitive and perceptual processes. Topics include memory, perception, attention, language, mental imagery, creativity, judgement and decision-making, and an introduction to cognitive disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, dyslexia, aphasia and attention-deficit disorder. Prerequisite: PSYC 100 (or PSYC 101). Students with credit for PSYC 320 may not take PSYC 221 for further credit.
Introduces students to the area of abnormal psychology. Topics include the definition and classification of pathological behavior, factors involved in the development of pathology, and evaluation of therapy outcome. Prerequisite: PSYC 102 (or 101). Students with credit for PSYC 340 may not take PSYC 241 for further credit.
Considers the psychological and physical aspects of human development from conception through middle childhood. Topics include social, emotional, language, cognitive, perceptual and physical development. Prerequisite: PSYC 102 (or 101). Students with credit for PSYC 350 or 351 may not take PSYC 250 for further credit.
Examines methodology and content in social psychology. Topics include: attitudes and values; social perception and cognition; group behavior; social includence; prejudice, discrimination, and sexism; aggression; altruism, interpersonal attraction and interpersonal relationships. Prerequisite: PSYC 102 (or 101). Students with credit for PSYC 360 may not take PSYC 260 for further credit.
An introduction to the area of law and psychology. The role and influence of psychology in the legal system will be discussed. Topics include: social psychology and law, developmental psychology and law, juvenile justice, experimental psychology and law, mental disability and law. Prerequisite: PSYC 102 (or 101). Students with credit for PSYC 369 may not take this course for further credit.
Surveys the major areas in biological psychology. Topics include the basics of neuroanatomy and nerve cell function, the behavioral and physiological effects of drugs and hormones in the nervous system, evolutionary perspectives on the brain and behavior, and the biopsychology of vision, the chemical senses, hearing, movement, biological rhythms, sex, and cognitive processes. Prerequisite: PSYC 100 (or 101). Recommended: BISC 101. Breadth-Science.
Trains students to evaluate critically important  issues from the main area of Psychology (e.g. Biological, Cognitive, Developmental, Law and Psychology, Social, Theory and Methods) and to communicate their ideas clearly in written form. The content may vary in different offerings of the course. Prerequisite: PSYC 201. Writing.
A continuation of PSYC 201 and 210. Provides extensions of the basic theory and methods of research design and data analysis. Includes discussions of the analysis of substantive problems, the choice of appropriate research designs, and special problems that arise in the analysis of psychological data. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 210 and a minimum CGPA of 2.67. See the Letters of Permission section within the undergraduate Department of Psychology. Quantitative.
An introduction to the study of perceptual processes with an emphasis on seeing and hearing. Topics include the perception of features, objects, motion, depth, time, visual illusions, and individual differences in perceptual ability. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and one of 221 (or 320) or 335.
Examines the development of modern psychology from the founding of the first laboratories in the late 19th century to the present. The development and revisions of the major theoretical systems of psychology are examined from a comparative and critical perspective. Prerequisite: PSYC 201. Students with credit for PSYC 207 may not take PSYC 308 for further credit.
Examination of the phenomena of memory and the retention and reproduction of information. Considers the conditions and principles of retention and recall in short- and long-term memory. Prerequisite: PSYC 201W    and PSYC 221    (or 320).
Survey the different aspects of paying attention. Topics include the effects of selective and divided attention on perceptual and cognitive function; the role of attention in human performance; attentional dysfunction and attention-deficit disorder; and the development of attentional capacity across the life span from newborns to the elderly. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, and 221 (or 320).
Examines the properties of the visual, auditory, olfactory, gustatory, and kinesthetic systems and receptor mechanisms with a strong emphasis on physiology. Topics include psychophysical measurement of sensations, cross-modal organization and computational modeling of sensory processes, and the interface between sensory and perceptual processes. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 221, and one of 280 or 303.
First term of work experience in the Psychology Co-operative Education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 210. Students should apply to the co-op co-ordinator one term in advance.
Second term of work experience in the Psychology Co-operative Education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of PSYC 342 and 45 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0.
Examines research and theory concerning social, emotional, and cognitive development in infancy. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 250 (or 350 or 351).
Examines research and theory concerning the origins and development of cognition in humans. Traces the development of language and children's thinking about the physical and social world from birth to adulthood, with a focus on infancy and childhood. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 250 (or 350 or 351).
Considers human development from the end of childhood to the beginning of the adult stage, from a bio-social point of view. Included among the topics are psychological effects of sexual maturation, choice of vocation and marriage partner, effects of participation in the gang and youth organization, cultural variations in the patterns of growth. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 250 (or 350 or 351).
Examines theoretical approaches, research findings, and treatment outlooks concerning problems and disorders in childhood development. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 241 (or 340), and 250 (or 350 or 351).
Considers human development from young adulthood to old age. Included are theories of adult development and aging; environmental and biological factors in aging; and the effects of aging on sensation, perception, learning, cognition, personality, psychopathology, and social relations. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 250 (or 350 or 351) or acceptance into the diploma program in gerontology.
Reviews the four major psychological models of talk and develops a new social pragmatic model of talk-as-social-interaction. The social pragmatic model is then applied to research in social development. Through lectures, course readings, and hands-on exercises in the tutorials (e.g., tape recording, transcription and analysis of natural talk) students will acquire competence in describing and analyzing talk from a social pragmatic perspective, and applying social pragmatics to an examination of central issues in social development. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 250 (or 350 or 351). Students who have taken PSYC 367 may not take this course for further credit.
Reviews theory and research on the psychology of interpersonal relations, with particular attention to personal relationships. Topics include theoretical perspectives on relationships; interpersonal attraction; dating, marriage, and friendship; social networks; cognitive processes and communication dynamics within relationships; and power and aggression within relationships. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 260 (or 360).
Provides an overview of the social psychological study of intergroup relations, considering classic and contemporary theory and research in the field. It includes discussions of the application of these ideas and findings to important social contexts, and explores ways in which the social psychological study of intergroup relations can help us understand and inform efforts to influence relevant social change. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 260 (or 360).
Explores applications of psychological principles to health and health care. The development of the field of health psychology is traced and major topics introduced. Topics include health promotion, the hospital experience, communication in medical settings, coping with serious illness, psychoneuroimmunology, and field-specific methodology. Prerequisite: PSYC 201.
Focuses on classic and contemporary theories, conceptual debates, and empirical research in the area of personality. Prerequisite:    PSYC 201.  Students with credit for PSYC 270 may not complete this course for further credit.
Reviews the major approaches to psychological intervention in terms of theory, practice and outcome evaluation. The course will examine both the scientific and practitioner components of intervention. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 241 (or 340). PSYC 270 (or 370) is recommended. Students with credit for PSYC 375 may not take PSYC 371 for further credit.
The roles of experimental developmental, cognitive, and social psychology in the understanding of behavior and perceptions of individuals in legal contexts. Topics include eyewitness testimony, autobiographical memory, interviewing, deception detection, and juror decision-making. Prerequisite: PSYC 201W    and PSYC 268. Recommended: PSYC 210.  Students who have taken PSYC 368 may not take this course for further credit
Clinical approaches to the understanding of behavior in criminal and civil forensic settings. Topics related to the assessment, treatment, and management of people suffering from mental disorder. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 268. PSYC 241 is recommended.
Examines the ways in which hormones influence the nervous system, regulating essential behaviors such as eating, drinking, sex, parenting, sleep, emotional behavior and cognitive processes. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 280.
Examines the neurophysiological bases of cognitive and perceptual phenomena such as memory, attention, language, thinking, imagery, vision, audition, and sensory processes. The study of human cognitive performance with measurement techniques such as ERP, PET, and MRI is also discussed. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 221, and 280.
A survey of how psychoactive drugs affect brain function to alter consciousness and behavior. Topics will include cellular effects of drugs that affect the central nervous system and discussions of the psychological and social effects of those drug-induced changes in the brain. Research on drug abuse and addictions and means of treating them will be covered. Historical, social and legal aspects of non-medical drug use will be discussed, as will the use of medications for the treatment of anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, dementias and other psychological disorders. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 280. Students with credit for PSYC 483 may not take PSYC 383 for further credit.
Topics such as altruism, parental care, mate choice, sex differences in behavior, aggression, dominance and territoriality are considered from an evolutionary perspective. The role of heredity and environment in the development of these behaviors is also discussed. Prerequisite: PSYC 201W.
An overview of techniques used for studying the biological basis of behavior in humans and animals. Examines the logic and limitations of specific research methods. Provides an opportunity to master a set of techniques and to conduct supervised research projects in the laboratory. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 280. Students with credit for PSYC 481 may not take PSYC 386 for further credit.
Examines the neural processes that underlie cognitive functioning and behavior. Topics include neuroanatomy, neuropathology, brain damage, neurological diseases (e.g., schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's), and problems in spatial ability, memory, language, mood and anxiety. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 221, and 280.
Behavior and physiology are regulated by biological clocks, which function to synchronize the organism optimally with its environment. In this course we examine the adaptive role of clocks in animal behavior, the neural and endocrine mechanisms of daily, monthly and yearly rhythms, and the relevance of clocks, rhythms and sleep to human performance and psychopathology. We will also consider the mechanisms and functions of sleep states. Prerequisite: PSYC 201 and 280. Students with credit for PSYC 488 may not take PSYC 388 for further credit.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201. Other prerequisites vary by topic offering.
Examines the basic ideas concerning the relationship between mind and body and the empirical and rational foundations of scientific thought as applied to modern psychology. Students will be expected to analyze either the historical development of contemporary approaches or theoretical issues that are relevant to their area of interest in psychology. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, and one of 207 (or 308) or 307, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Reviews the basic logic of controlled experimentation, and focuses on analysis of variance designs commonly used in psychological research. Particular emphasis is given to the relative merits of the several designs when there are multiple research questions to be answered. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 301, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0. Quantitative.
Focuses on multivariate regression and correlation models. Deals with ways of answering questions when direct experimental manipulation is not feasible, and demonstrates the utility of the principles involved for solving problems other than those for which they were first proposed. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 301, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0. Recommended: PSYC 410. Quantitative.
An intensive exposure to selected topics in measurement theory and psychometrics including, e.g., advanced classical test theory, modern test theory, and factor analysis. The content will vary, offering to offering. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 301, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0. Recommended: PSYC 410 and 411.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 221 (or 320), 280, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 221 (or 320), 280, and 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
An intensive examination of a selected topic in clinical psychology, varying to include offerings such as psychopathology (adult or child), individual differences in cognitive abilities, behavioral approaches to intervention, addiction, and other special topics. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 371 (or 375), and 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0. Students with credit for PSYC 444 may not take PSYC 441 for further credit if similar topics are covered. See department for further information.
Third term of work experience in the Psychology Co-operative Education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of PSYC 342 and 343 and 60 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0.
Fourth term of work experience in the Psychology Co-operative Education program. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of PSYC 442 and 75 units with a minimum CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 250 (or 350 or 351), and 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 250 (or 350 or 351), and 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 250 (or 350 or 351), and 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 250 (or 350 or 351), 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Directed study and research leading to an Honors thesis proposal (PSYC 459/KIN 459). Prerequisite: 90 units, including PSYC 301 with a minimum grade of B and permission of the Chair of Behavioral Neuroscience Coordinating Committee. This course is identical to KIN 457 and students may not take both courses for credit.
A written thesis based on research previously proposed in PSYC 457/KIN 457. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of B in PSYC 457/KIN 457. This course is identical to KIN 459 and students may not take both courses for credit.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 260 (or 360), 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 260 (or 360), 362, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 260 (or 360), 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 260, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 268, 376, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0. Students who have taken PSYC 468 may not take this course for further credit.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 221, 280, 60 units, and and a CGPA of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 221, 280, 60 units, and a CGPA of 3.0.
An in-depth investigation of a topic in psychology, culminating in a critical literature review and the formulation of a research proposal. Prerequisite: PSYC 300 and 301, both with a minimum grade of 3.0.
Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 60 units, a CGPA of 3.0. Other prerequisites vary by topic offering.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 60 units, a CGPA of 3.0, and permission of the department. See the Directed Studies Courses section within the undergraduate Department of Psychology section.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 60 units, a CGPA of 3.0, and permission of the department. See the Directed Studies Courses section within the undergraduate Department of Psychology section.
Independent reading or research in topics selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: PSYC 201, 210, 60 units, a CGPA of 3.0, and permission of the department. See the Directed Studies Courses section within the undergraduate Department of Psychology section.
The research proposed in PSYC 490 is executed and the results are written up in thesis format. Prerequisite: PSYC 490.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824, or permission of the instructor.
Current theoretical and empirical issues in the area of child and adolescent therapy. Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824 or permission of the instructor.
Provides an overview of the current theoretical and empirical issues in the area of family therapy. Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824 or permission of the instructor.
Conceptual and theoretical issues in group therapy. Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824 or permission of the instructor.
Conceptual and theoretical issues in Marital Therapy. Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824 or permission of the instructor.
Conceptual and theoretical issues in Cognitive Behavior therapy. Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824 or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824, or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: PSYC 820, 821, 822, 823, 824, or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790.
Prerequisite: graduate program standing. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Prerequisite: admission to the clinical program or permission of the instructor.
Corequisite: enrolment in PSYC 820, graduate standing in the clinical program, or permission of the instructor. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Prerequisite: graduate standing in the clinical program, or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: enrolment in PSYC 822, graduate standing in the clinical program, or permission of the instructor. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Prerequisite: Admission to the Masters or Doctoral program.
Prerequisite: admission to the clinical program. Required every term prior to internship except when granted 'on leave' status from PSYC 825, or when enrolled in PSYC 880 and also inactive at the Clinical Psychology Centre (CPC). Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Prerequisite: PSYC 750, 820.
Prerequisite: PSYC 750, 820. Corequisite: PSYC 830.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790, 815.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790, 815.
No description available
No description available
Full-time clinical work for four months in an approved setting. Prerequisite: PSYC 744, 770, 820, 821, 910, 911. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Prerequisite: admission to the doctoral clinical program. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
Prerequisite: admission to the clinical program with a specialization in neuropsychology. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
No description available
No description available
Full-time clinical work for 12 months in an approved setting. Prerequisite: equivalent of the MA clinical program, three PhD level courses, successful completion of the PhD comprehensive examinations, and successful defense of the PhD research proposal. Graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Enrolment in PSYC 886 must be continued for a total of three consecutive terms.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790, 835 or 836.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790.
Prerequisite: PSYC 790.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Reviews the basic logic of controlled experimentation, and focuses on analysis of variance designs commonly used in psychological research. Particular emphasis is given to the relative merits of the several designs when there are multiple research questions to be answered.
Focuses on multivariate regression and correlation models. Deals with ways of answering questions when direct experimental manipulation is not feasible, and emphasizes new applications.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Research seminars are designed specifically to enable graduate students in Psychology to plan, execute, and analyse research including that leading to MA and PhD degrees. The seminars will provide directions for future research, critical discussion of pending designs, aid in resolving problems in ongoing studies, and alternative interpretations of results of completed projects. The research seminar courses are graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Prerequisite: PSYC 790.
No description available
Prerequisite: admission to the masters or doctoral program.
All students in the experimental and clinical psychology PhD programs are required to successfully complete the comprehensive exam.
An in-depth study of the systems and structures fundamental to book, magazine, and associated online media design. Students analyze, evaluate, design and/or repurpose existing publications. By means of case studies students are introduced to the current practices of design and production in print, and how content is being delivered online and through mobile devices. Emphasis is placed on innovative methods and design practices for screen-based publishing and sustainable design solutions. Prerequisite: 60 units. This course will be cross-listed with CMS 473 and students should not receive credit for both courses.
An exploration and application of marketing concepts to book publishing. Concepts and skills taught focus on differentiation of product categories and markets, and the creation of a marketing strategy for existing or new publications. Consideration of reading trends for all publication forms is included. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students should not receive credit for both CMNS 472 and PUB 350.
Explores the formulation and analysis of marketing goals within the evolving realm of online promotion and marketing. Emphasis is given to approaches to measurement of effect; implementation and campaign management; finding and nurturing audiences and conversations; branding; forecasting and budgeting. Prerequisite: 60 units.
An analysis of the various facets of the book publishing industry in Canada including ownership patterns, legal foundations, criteria for book selection and marketing. Includes examination of both commercial and educational publishing. The industry will be analysed within the framework of Canadian cultural and other government policies affecting the industry. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students with credit for CMNS 371 may not take this course for further credit.
Students will follow the book-publishing process from the acquisition and editing of manuscripts through to production, promotion and distribution. Each topic proceeds from basic concepts and precepts to case studies of particular kinds of publishing companies (e.g., literary, regional and general trade) and particular types of books (e.g., children's, genre, fiction and poetry). The publishing decision-to-publish process is simulated. Required readings focus on the history of book publishing, as well as on current developments. Prerequisite: 60 units. Students with credit for CMNS 372 may not take this course for further credit.
A practical course covering core issues in magazine publishing. Topics include business best practices, marketing, advertising and circulation, editorial vision, online and digital publishing, design and packaging. Prerequisite: 60 units. This course will be cross-listed with CMNS 375 and students should not receive credit for both courses.
An exploration of the evolution of book publishing in the context of the digital revolution. This seminar is a structured inquiry into contemporary practices, theories, and trends, and it explores a host of related shifts and developments in the way books are produced, marketed, distributed, retailed, and received. Prerequisite: 75 units. Recommended: PUB 372.
This course examines business practices within book publishing firms. It emphasizes financial planning and operations, acquisitions, marketing and promotion. Prerequisite: 75 units. Students should not receive credit for both CMNS 474 and PUB 450.
A practicum in which students have the opportunity to work in an applied publishing setting. The practicum will provide an opportunity for the student to learn about book, magazine, or electronic publishing. Prerequisite: At least 8 units of upper level publishing courses and permission of the instructor. Students may enrol a maximum of twice in this course.
An advanced workshop on the publishing process focused on applied research. Prerequisite: At least 8 units of upper division Publishing courses and permission of the instructor. Students should not receive credit for both CMNS 478 and PUB 478.
An analysis of management issues essential to the daily operation of publishing firms. Emphasis will be placed on the distinctive nature of publishing as a cultural/information industry, the applicability of theory and practice in marketing and accounting and the legal underpinnings of publishing. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
An examination of and engagement with editorial work, which comprises tasks ranging from conceptual to copy editing, as well as close collaboration with artists, designers, and marketers. Through readings, discussions, exercises, and assignments, all approached in the context of rhetorical theory, students learn to edit text, images, and combined forms - in print and online. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
A project-based consideration of the theory, elements, and principles of graphic design, as well as current trends in publication design for both print and online projects. The course examines the essential role of design and production in editorial, planning, budgeting, and marketing. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
Students work in teams to set up simulated publishing companies, taking on industry roles such as editor, art director, and marketing manager. Each team then develops a company mission and a list of printed books and digital publications. The team produces editorial and marketing documents; creates design solutions for print and online; projects revenue and expenses for each publication; and makes a final presentation to a panel of publishing professionals.
Teams of students take on industry roles such as editor, art director, and circulation manager and each team conceives a magazine to be published online, or in print with an online presence. Working with faculty and industry guests, the team researches audience potential, develops editorial and design concepts, and creates a comprehensive business and marketing plan for final presentation to a panel of publishing professionals. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
Students work in teams to explore applied research and development directions in publishing technology. Project teams design and develop working implementations and produce documentation and specifications for industry review. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
An examination of the state of contemporary Canadian publishing inclusive of business dynamics and government policy. Emphasis is placed on traditional trade-book and ebook publishing, emerging trends in print periodicals and online publishing, and developments in scholarly publishing. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
A consideration of publishing from tablets, scrolls and codices to movable type and mass production including discussion of the medium of print and its influence on human expression. Emphasis is placed on the evolution of publishing and publishing policies in history. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
An examination of the economic, legal, social, and cultural role of publishing vis--vis the emerging digital paradigm. The emergence of new forms, genres, and contexts is explored, as is the adaptation and evolution of existing industrial forms. Attention is given to both broad-scale phenomena and to the details of digital technology. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
No description available
Students complete their internship project report and work with their supervisory committee to bring it to a final acceptable form.
Students are placed in an applied setting. The work they undertake must be of sufficient depth and breadth to allow the student the opportunity to demonstrate his or her acquired knowledge and skills. Students will be required to produce two reports; the first, a work report which will be an appraisal of the student's work experience, and the second, a project report which will be an investigation and analysis of a particular problem or case. Prerequisite: admittance to the program.
This course provides students with an overview of global environmental change and its causes from a social science perspective, historically and at the present time. Population growth, an increasing ecological footprint and changes in ideology, social organization, economy and technology will be critically reviewed. New ways of thinking in natural and social science will be considered in relation to specific issues such as land, soil and food; energy, raw materials and solid waste; air pollution and transportation; water, oceans and fisheries; climate change; forestry and biodiversity; urbanization, and alternative futures. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Students will learn to apply the ecological concepts introduced in prerequisite courses to applied ecological problems at the population, community, and ecosystem levels of organization. Emphasis will be placed on processes which drive ecological dynamics, on recognizing those processes and dynamics in applied contexts, and on interpreting ecological data. Prerequisite: REM 100 or EVSC 200, BISC 204 or GEOG 215, STAT 101 or GEOG 251 or STAT 201 or STAT 301 or equivalent. Quantitative.
Introduces students to the concepts and methods of ecological economics. Provides students with grounding in the core principles of conventional economics applied to the environment but then extends this to the integration of economics and ecology to create a new ecological-economic understanding of environmental change and sustainability. Prerequisite: minimum of 45 units.  This course is identical to ENV 321 and students cannot complete both courses for credit.
This course provides an overview of some basic legislation, agencies, and policies which currently are in use to regulate the natural environment at the international, nation, provincial, regional, and local levels. Its purpose is to present a basic set of evaluative questions which can be used to address the effectiveness and efficiency of the environmental regulatory and management systems currently in use. Prerequisite: REM 100.
No description available
Students receive hands-on experience in the construction and analysis of computer simulation models of environmental and ecological systems and problems. Prerequisite: BISC 204, REM 100 or EVSC 200, MATH 151 or 154 or 157, MATH 152 or 155, STAT 101 or 103 or 201 or equivalent. Quantitative.
Students receive theory and practical experience in the control and management of hazardous substances in the environment. This includes the application of techniques used to assess toxicological, ecological and human health risks of contaminants within the current regulatory framework. Prerequisite: MATH 151 or 154 or 157; STAT 101 or 103 or 201 or 301 or GEOG 251.
No description available
Students will examine the problems of managing forest ecosystems for a variety of societal goals and objectives. The course will start with an examination of the ecological characteristics of forest ecosystems and their dynamics. The second section will focus on the objectives and tools of forest management in an ecological context. The final section of the course will focus on the institutions, economics and policies of forest management, with a focus on British Columbia's historical and current management issues. This course will involve lectures, group discussions, field trips, and exercises. Prerequisite: At least one of REM 311, BISC 304, BISC 310, BISC 404, GEOG 315, or GEOG 316.
An introduction to the relevance of social science perspectives, data and analytical tools in resource management, especially as these complement, supplement or critique perspectives from natural science or economics.
A professional group workshop course focusing on specific resource and environmental problems. Prerequisite: eight REM courses or permission of instructor.
This course examines living-resource management as a control system, including open loop (set point) control, closed loop (feedback) control, passive and active adaptive management. We explore the processes for the design of living-resource management systems, including interpreting policy as operational objectives, iterative development and stakeholder consultation, assessment methods, decision rules, evaluation using closed loop simulations, performance measures, trade-off between multiple objectives and methods for the presentation of results. The course includes a laboratory project to evaluate a management approach for a selected resource using computer simulations. Prerequisite: REM 611, 612 or 613 or permission of instructor.
A study of the environmental behavior and toxic effects of chemical substances in the environment and the application of methodologies for their assessment and management.
A review of population, community, and ecosystem ecology; implications of these areas for methods of resource management and environmental assessment.
Methods of constructing simulations models and analyzing them through sensitivity analysis. Application of simulation modelling to research and management of environmental and resource systems. Topics will include management of wildlife, forests, insect pests, fisheries, pollution problems, energy resources, and recreational land use. Prerequisite: REM 611 or permission of the instructor.
Introduction to fishing methods, fisheries ecosystems and the effects of fishing. Application of models of fish population dynamics, methods of data analysis and the quantification of uncertainty. Introduction to selected methods for providing scientific advice on the productivity and status of fish stocks. Focus will be primarily on biological aspects of fisheries assessment while illustrating how these interface with economic, social and institutional concerns of managers.
Combines fish population dynamics with statistical estimation to provide quantitative assessments of the status of fish populations and fisheries. The course builds upon REM 613 by developing a broader range of biological and mathematical models of fish populations and management procedures, as well as approaches for testing the reliability of these methods. Lab tutorial sessions develop quantitative models, estimation, and simulation approaches for performing and evaluating stock assessment methods that are currently applied in fisheries and wildlife management. Prerequisite: REM 613 or permission of instructor.
Introduction to economic concepts for management of the environment and specific natural resources. Key issues are definitions of sustainability, the substitution capability between human-made and natural capital, and the appropriate application of economics to sustainable development analysis and policies.
Use of quantitative methods of risk assessment and decision analysis to explicitly take uncertainty into account when making decisions in management of natural resources. Methods of quantifying uncertainty and the resulting risks. Examples from management of forests, wildlife, fisheries, water resources, energy, and toxic chemicals. Communicating information about uncertainties and the resulting risks to resource managers, the public, and scientists. Advantages and limitations of various quantitative methods. Includes computer laboratories. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
Reviews how human and natural processes across earth systems and over a range of scales interact to affect the hydrological cycle, climate, and land surface processes that are relevant to resource management.
The extensive classification of a landscape based on geology, geomorphology, soils, vegetation, historic and current land use, and the assessment of qualitative values as an aid to multiple land use management.
The application of these techniques in the acquisition and display of selected resource data. Topics include air photo interpretation, multi-band photography, thermal infrared imagery, satellite imagery, orthophotography, topographic and thematic mapping, and computer cartography.
For students to understand the "general principles, opportunities, and pitfalls of recording, collecting, storing, retrieving, analyzing, and presenting spatial information" as it pertains to resource and environmental management.
A study of legal interventions related to resource planning and environmental control. The course looks at several aspects of environmental and recourse law including administrative and constitutional law, fisheries and forestry regulation, and native rights.
Theory and techniques of regional analysis; planning models and their application to key resource sectors.
This course examines theoretical aspects of conflict and dispute resolution in natural resource management settings and is designed to assist students in understanding the nature of environmental conflict and the role of environmental dispute resolution (EDR) techniques.
Analysis of methods of policy-making and problem solving with particular emphasis on natural resource issues. Topics include goal setting, problem definition, program scheduling, policy evaluation, policy implementation and public administration. A practical analysis of the structure and processes surrounding major contemporary policy issues.
Examination of the impact of resource developments on communities in Canada. An overview of the social organization of resources-based communities and an analysis of the participatory process in decision making in resource management.
Evaluation and application of current methodologies for social, economic, and biophysical impact assessment and the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management systems.
The course examines a combination of both ecological and market-based resource assessment and planning techniques for conservation and use of parks, forests, and protected areas. Visitor behavior and management in recreation and protected areas settings will be examined.
This course will examine the social, environmental and economic components of tourism. Topics will include theoretical concepts and elements of tourism, historical evolution, spatial patterns, and case studies of tourism development in various parts of the world. Discussion of tourism planning and management will focus on the development of tourism as a renewable resource.
The course provides frameworks and methodologies for understanding the policy and planning initiatives of public and private sector organizations. Foundations for resource assessment, market analysis, product-market matching and regional tourism strategy development are explored in detail. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
Management strategies and policies to achieve sustainable flows of energy and materials in the economy. Eco-efficiency strategies reduce these flows while resource substitution strategies seek more environmentally benign flows. Applies expertise from economics, ecology, thermodynamics, engineering, geology and behavioral sciences.
This course extends environmental and ecological economics concepts  to the field of project appraisal and non-market valuation. Includes the methods and limitations of standard cost-benefit analysis (CBA), as well as new techniques in the valuation of non-market environmental resources and ways to incorporate considerations such as the depletion of natural resources in project work. The course concludes with treatment of a number of alternatives to CBA, including multi-attribute techniques and the precautionary principle. Prerequisite: ECON 200, REM 621, or permission of instructor.
The course critically examines approaches employed by communities incorporating tourism into their development strategies. Techniques for optimizing the resource potential of communities from economic, social, cultural and environmental perspectives are explored with a view toward developing policies for 'appropriate' community tourism. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
Evaluation of theoretical models and management experiences; federal, provincial and international institutional arrangements and jurisdictional responsibilities; emerging problems and opportunities. This is primarily a field course in which water and environmental management systems in British Columbia are compared with those in the states of Washington, Oregon, and California.
Introduces students to issues of environmental resource use in developing countries. Covers environmental issues in development, integrated conservation and development projects, community-based resource management, and global and ecological economics perspectives. Includes a one-week field trip to Baja, Mexico.
Theory, background, and practical experience in the use of a range of techniques for policy modelling of energy and materials flows in society with the aim of demonstrating how more environmentally and socially sustainable trajectories can be achieved. Techniques include: simulation modelling, optimization modelling, econometric and other forms of parameter estimation, input-output modelling, game playing models, and integrated systems models. Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
Special topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program
Special Topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program.
Special Topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program.
Special topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program.
Special topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program.
No description available
Special topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program.
Special Topics in areas not currently offered within the offerings of the resource and environmental management program.
Examines the theory and practice of forest management based on an understanding of the linkages between forest ecosystem dynamics, economics, policy and social management. Principles are illustrated with reference to contemporary forestry issues. Prerequisite: REM 611 or permission of instructor.
Structure, function and development of forest ecosystems. Population, community, ecosystem and landscape approaches are used to enable students to understand the biology and management of forests in terms of the processes driving spatial and temporal dynamics.
Principles and practice of silviculture; lecture and laboratory, with added emphasis on the state of the art in British Columbia. Prerequisite: REM 671, equivalent course, or permission of instructor.
First term of work experience in the School of Resource and Environmental Management's Co-operative Education Program.
Second term of work experience in the School of Resource and Environmental Management's Co-operative Education Program. Prerequisite: students must have completed at least one term's courses and permission of REM's co-op co-ordinator.
An intensive field course introducing students to the diversity of issues and viewpoints concerning management of natural resources. Problem areas will include forestry, mining, fisheries and wildlife management, energy, recreation and land use planning.
A research project dealing with a specific interdisciplinary problem in resource management, administration or allocation. The study must result in the preparation of a formal paper and the presentation of a seminar.
Students will develop skills and insight into the design, implementation and analysis of interdisciplinary research in natural resource and environmental management. This will help prepare students to carry out their own research projects. Students who entered REM during or prior to the Fall 1994 term and who have received credit for any one of MRM 601, 611 or 621 may not take REM 801 for credit.
This course is designed for all REM PhD students, although considerable course material may be of interest and value to other REM students. The course will emphasize preparing PhD students for their breadth comprehensive exams by discussing and evaluating various viewpoints in published debates related to the three topic areas of comprehensive exams: resource and environmental economics, policy and planning and environmental science. The course will also cover planning and carrying out the PhD research, as well as effectively communicating research results.
No description available
An examination of Canadian society from the perspective of the social sciences -- an introduction both to the nature of Canadian society and to the use of sociological and anthropological concepts applied to the analysis of modern societies in general. This course is meant to appeal to those who specifically wish to expand their knowledge of Canadian Society, and also to those who may be considering further work in sociology and anthropology. Topics to be considered include class structure, the nature of Canada's population, regional variation, gender relations, multiculturalism, native issues. Writing/Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to the study of human social and cultural life from an anthropological perspective. The course will explore the scope and nature of the discipline of anthropology through study of selected cases drawn from both technologically simple communities and complex modern industrial societies. Students with credit for SA 170 may not take SA 101 for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
This is the first term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program in sociology and anthropology. It is meant to be exploratory in nature. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: 29 units with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75 including SA 101 or 150 and SA 255. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
The study of basic concerns of sociology, such as social order, social change, social conflict and social inequality. Breadth-Social Sciences.
An introduction to the anthropological perspective as applied to the organization of everyday life in contemporary settings. Introduces positivist, interpretive, and critical interpretive approaches to the analysis of social actions, identities, and values as enacted in space and time. Students with credit for SA 291 may not take SA 201W for further credit. Recommended: SA 101. Writing.
A critical examination of the relationship between violence and structural inequalities. Focus will be on different forms that violence assumes in war and peace and how acts of violence are remembered, collectively denied or misrecognized. Particular case studies may include colonization of indigenous people, Holocaust, South African Apartheid, India's Partition, the genocide in Rwanda, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 9/11 and its aftermath along with everyday suffering, including gender violence. As well, special attention will be given to anthropological witnessing. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
Surveys the field of social and moral regulation of human subjects in both historical and contemporary contexts. It canvasses the wide range of ideas, policies and methods that have characterized state and civil projects aimed at imposing social order through systems of law, politics, education, health, welfare, labour, religion, family, media, and other key social institutions. Students will learn about the profound impact of civil and state regulation projects in their many forms on societies past and present, and about the rich diversity of institutional, cultural and human experience that these social ordering ideologies, policies and practices encompass. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
The study of socio-cultural factors related to health and illness. Focus will be on patterns of health seeking activity, systems of health care, causal and symbolic factors involved in physical and mental illness, and the medicalization of life in contemporary society. The disciplinary focus of the course will vary from semester to semester. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students with credit SA 460 when offered as Medical Anthropology may not take SA 218 for further credit.
An examination of families and households in social, cultural, political and economic context. This course focuses on the diversity of family forms in contemporary societies (particularly Canada) in relation to various social institutions and processes, including demographic trends, ideology, gender inequality, the economy, the state and social policies. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
This is the second term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program in sociology and anthropology. Building on the experiences of the first employment term, this term will provide a work experience that integrates theory and practice of the social sciences. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: successful completion of SA 141 and normally the completion of at least 45 units with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
This course introduces students to the principles and practices of visual anthropology through exploring the creation, circulation, and consumption of images among and between members of diverse cultures in the contemporary world. Topics to be covered include the use of photographs, film and video as a tool in ethnographic research; the use and implications of new information technologies; the 'reading' of photographs, film and video from an anthropological perspective; the emergence and development of non-Western visual media. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An account of sociological theory, outlining the main ideas and concepts of the principal schools of thought. Prerequisite: SA 150.
An introduction to the conduct of sociological and anthropological research. Topics covered include: the relationship between theory and research, concept formation, operationalization, exploratory studies, hypothesis generation and testing, data collection techniques within both sociology and anthropology, the assessment of causality, the critical evaluation of research on both theoretical and methodological grounds, the definition of research problems, and ethical issues in social research. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150. Quantitative.
An examination of how self and identity (e.g. race, class, gender, sexual orientation) are socially derived within contemporary western culture, and of the ways that individuals shape their social environment. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An introduction to culture, social structure and the processes of social, economic, and political transformation in contemporary China. Topics may include recent development of Marxism, feminism and neoliberalism in China; Western debates on China's rise and images of China as threat; human rights. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150.
Investigates contemporary social organization, cultural expression, and political representation among Aboriginal peoples in the province of British Columbia within an ethnohistorical framework. Topics may include: land rights, law, gender relations, inter-cultural relations; policy studies in education, health, justice, social and economic development; indigenous knowledge; Aboriginal art, media and performance. Emphasis may differ from term to term. Students with credit for SA 140 may not take SA 286 for further credit.  Recommended: SA 101.
An analysis of the social institutions and structure of Canadian society. The focus of the course will vary from semester to semester, but typically it will examine different theoretical approaches to the study of Canada and, from these, develop a framework for the analysis of Canadian social institutions and class structure. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
A consideration of key themes in contemporary anthropology. This course addresses theoretical and methodological questions by examining the work of contemporary anthropologists conducting research in diverse locations around the world. Prerequisite: SA 201. Students with credit for SA 370 may not take SA 301 for further credit.
An introduction to the political economy and culture of capitalism in relation to global problems. Case studies may focus on issues of population, famine, disease, poverty, environmental destruction, social inequality, and nation-state violence. Resistance, rebellion and social movements in response to these problems also will be addressed. Highly Recommended: SA 101 or SA 150. Students who took SA 294 in 03-1, 04-1 and 04-2 may not take SA 302 for further credit. Writing/Breadth-Social Sciences.
This course examines how the organization of control (formal and informal) affects both individuals and society. It will investigate how control takes form, how it functions, the ideologies supporting it, and the resistance it produces. We will ask the following questions: who are the agents of social control; who or what do they control; and how do they control? Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
Explores the new social spaces and social practices fostered by new information technology. Special attention will be paid to who is making decisions about what technologies to adopt and how, what social changes are resulting, and who benefits and who loses. A significant portion of activity in this course will involve direct engagement with new information technology. Recommended: SA 150.
An examination of tourism from the perspectives of sociology and anthropology, focusing primarily upon the social and cultural impacts of tourism and the social policy implications of tourism development in different societies. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
Explores the role of biomedicine in society and culture through inquiry into the social and ideological organization of health and healing. Special attention will be paid to how biomedical categories structure experiences of the body, how means of life and death are shaped through medical interventions, and how social relations organize the delivery of biomedical technologies. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of the effects of culture and ethnicity on the aging process and the treatment of the aged. Although the orientation of the course is cross-cultural and comparative, particular emphasis will be placed on the social aspects of aging among various ethnic groups in contemporary Canada. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201 or acceptance into the gerontology diploma program.
A study of the sources, development and effects of social movements in transitional and modernized societies. Specific types of movements will be analysed. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of the development and social impact of religious institutions in modern industrial societies. Consideration will be given to the classical theoretical approaches to the sociology of religion, and further topics which may be considered include: denominational religion in Britain and North America; the secularization thesis; the relationship between science and religion, and the organization, structure and social appeal of sectarian groups in contemporary society. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of myth, symbolism, ritual and cosmological systems. Anthropological theories of magic, possession, witchcraft, healing and religious movements analyzed in ethnographic context. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of the relations of power and authority. This course will analyze the interrelations of family, church, class, interest groups, etc., particularly as they influence and are influenced by the state. The relations of law and ideology to the structures of government will form the context for this analysis. The course may also focus on broad theoretical questions of contemporary political interest. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of recent social thought that is concerned with environmental and ecological themes. It will address a selection from the following themes: technology evaluation; technology and science as ideology; ecology and social inequality; the concepts of ecosystem, environment and wilderness; the self-world relationship; politics of environmental uses; environment and the economy. The disciplinary designation will change to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of sociological theories concerning the interaction of social structures, and meaning and belief systems. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
A sociological examination of the contested nature of contemporary domestic and intimate relations. The course will focus on debates arising from equality movement politics (e.g. gender, sexuality, race). Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
A cross-cultural examination of the social and cultural relations that shape childhood in different settings. Topics to be considered could include: the social definition of childhood and child rearing; the institutional arrangements established for children and youth and the impact that these have on children, families, and society; the social construction of child and youth cultures. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 201.
A sociological study of the position of women and men in major social institutions in western industrial societies, in particular Canada. Social institutions that may be examined include: the family, education, the economy, the polity, law, and the mass media. Particular attention will be paid to social policy issues. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students with credit for SA 292 (when offered as gender relations) or GSWS 308 (or WS 308) may not take SA 335 for further credit.
The categories that organize our understandings of sex, gender and sexuality have powerful histories and roles in organizing social relations in western society. Social activists and academics contest the naturalness of these categories, particularly that of the binary opposition between male and female, and related assumptions about sexuality and sexual orientation. This course encompasses a range of perspectives on sex/gender identity, sexuality, and the relationship between the two. These perspectives include feminist, lesbian and gay, and queer and transgender challenges to traditional understandings of sex/gender identity and sexuality. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of how sociological and anthropological theories and methods can be applied to the examination of social problems and issues which become the object of social policy. A central concern of the course is the question of how social issues are defined as problematic. Particular attention will be given to gender, ethnicity, class and generation. Substantive examples of social policy issues will be selected from a number of fields. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
This is the third term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program in sociology and anthropology. The work experience will be focused in a specialized area of the student's choice. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of SA 241 and normally the completion of at least 61 units with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
An introduction to critical perspectives on the social construction of race, nation building and transnational migration, with an emphasis on state policies and the experiences of immigrants. The course will cover a review of colonialism and the construction of racialized labor market. Core topics may include: racialization of space, anti-racist feminist thought, immigration policy, settlement services, multiculturalism, citizenship, racial profiling, diasporas, and refugees. Comparative material will be used to complement the Canadian focus. The disciplinary designation will change to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of aspects of the work of one or more of the nineteenth or early twentieth century sociological theorists. Prerequisite: SA 250.
A detailed study of classical Marxist social thought. Prerequisite: SA 250.
An anthropological examination of games and sports in cross-cultural perspective. Particular attention will be given to the social construction of games and athletic activities as well as the cultural, political and aesthetic meanings attached to these. Topics that may be examined include: the embodiment of culture in sporting activities; the impact of inter-cultural contact and globalization on games and sport; the shaping of gender, class and ethnic identities through sport involvement; appropriate methodologies for producing sport ethnographies. Prerequisite: SA 101 or  201.
A sociological examination of sport focuses on the role of this important set of institutions and activities in shaping social relations and understandings about difference and identity. Sport has a long history of naturalizing racial and gender differences in such a way as to reinforce and reflect social inequality more broadly. Racial segregation in sport (at least in formal legal terms) is no longer considered acceptable in western societies or in the Olympic movement at the global level. But the power of sport in reinforcing and naturalizing racial inequality continues while the naturalness and inevitability of sex segregation in sport remains largely unchallenged. This course will explore the relationships between sport and social inequality, sport and nationalism, and sport and the economy. Prerequisite: minimum of 30 units including SA 150. Students who took SA 216 or SA 315 (when offered as Society of Leisure) may not take SA 353 for further credit.
An examination of measurement issues within sociological and anthropological research, focusing on the logical and conceptual construction and interpretation of tables, and an examination of the uses and abuses of statistics. Through an introduction to 'hands on' use of the computer, this course emphasizes the applications, rather than the mathematics, of statistics. Prerequisite: STAT 203 or equivalent and SA 255. Students with credit for SA 355 may not take POL 315 for further credit. Quantitative.
An examination of qualitative field methods, including participant observation, interviewing, archival research, cross-cultural research, life histories, network analysis, mapping, and ethical problems of fieldwork. Prerequisite: SA 255. Writing.
Students will formulate a research problem suited to a quasi-experimental (survey) design, and perform all the research steps needed for its completion. Prerequisite: SA 255. Recommend: SA 355. Writing/Quantitative.
An analysis of the nature of explanation in the social sciences: 'mind' and action, positivist and interpretive modes of explanation, sociological and historical explanation, objectivity, forms of relativism, the concept of rationality. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
A seminar exploring a topic not regularly offered by the department. The disciplinary designation will change to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of the social and political implications of the global economy. Topics to be considered include the influence of neo-liberal economics, the decline of the national welfare state, transnational political agencies and public policy, the internationalization of culture, the global labor market, the 'world city' hypothesis, ethnic resurgence and alternatives to these developments. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of sociological and anthropological theories of development and underdevelopment as applied to the Third World. The nature and consequences of world system linkages; colonialism and decolonization; patterns of social change in selected societies and regions. The disciplinary designation will change to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
Anthropological approaches to urbanization, the nature of the city as a social system, and urban cultures and lifestyles. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students with credit for SA 464 may not take SA 364 for further credit.
An examination of selected aspects of the social structure, culture and the processes of social change in varying regional areas. The focus will vary from semester to semester. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
Examines how language shapes and is shaped by culture, power, and social relations and introduces the major concepts, approaches, and theories used by anthropologists in the investigation of relations between language and cultural forms. Prerequisite: SA 101, 201, or 150.
An examination of environmental issues in their social context. Environmental issues are on the leading edge of contemporary public concern and public policy debates. This course will examine such issues as the relationship between social organization and mode of subsistence, the politics of hunger, and the way in which human societies in their particular social, historical, and cultural contexts view and interact with the natural world. The disciplinary designation will change from term to term to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of the ways in which ethnographers seek to understand a world experiencing profound changes in the relationships between governments and the societies they govern. Topics to be considered may include: relations between indigenous peoples and governments; the social and cultural dynamics of public policy making; the articulation of human rights issues. The focus of the course will vary from semester to semester. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
The social and cultural patterns of aboriginal populations within various modern nation-states. Their relations with majority societies and with other indigenous groups across the world. The disciplinary designation will change from term to term to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An introduction to the peoples and institutions of Latin America in historical and contemporary perspective, emphasizing macro-level patterns of similarity and diversity. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students with credit for SA 391 may not take this course for further credit. This course is identical to LAS 392 and students cannot take both courses for credit.
An examination of selected aspects of social structure, culture and processes of social change in a specific regional area. The focus will vary from term to term. The disciplinary designation will change from term to term to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An examination of the ways in which anthropology and ethnography may be used to affect action in the world. Topics may include: advocacy anthropology; the development and practice of applied anthropology; the emergence of anthropology and ethnography and the arts. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201.  Recommended: at least two upper division courses in anthropology.
This seminar will be taught co-operatively by LAS associated faculty or by a visiting professor. A topic will be chosen which can be examined profitably from a multidisciplinary perspective. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including LAS 200, or consent of instructor. Students who have taken LAS 403 cannot take this course for further credit.
Offers specialized instruction on advanced topics pertaining to the social and moral regulation of human subjects in both historical and contemporary contexts. It explores the ideologies, policies and practices of regulation and governance in application to selected social contexts and subjects including, but not confined to, welfare, justice, medicine, the 'psy' sciences, immigration, labour, sexuality, pornography, racialization, gender and family. Students will acquire specialized knowledge about the profound impact of civil and state regulation projects on societies past and present, and about the rich diversity of institutional, cultural and human experience that these social ordering ideologies, policies and practices encompass. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including, either SA 101 or 150, and SA 210.
This course may focus variously on one or all of the following: the social origins and functions of art, sociological theories of aesthetics, and contemporary issues in art, such as the fate of art in modern society, popular culture, mass media, ideology in art. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units  including SA 101 or  150 or 201.
An examination of sociological approaches to the study of health and health care, emphasizing the connections between social theory and empirical data. Topics may include: the social determinants of health, health inequities, the structure and reform of health care systems, and the application of human rights frameworks to the study of health. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units which must include SA 101 or 150 or 201W, or must have graduate student status in the Faculty of Health Sciences. Students who have taken SA 360 Special Topics: Medical Sociology in 2006-3 may not take this course for further credit.
An investigation of the social, cultural, and political issues that contribute to problems of ill-health in resource-poor countries and the major efforts in international public health to address these problems. It explores the application of knowledge about social, and especially gender relations in international health, with particular attention to local perspectives and grassroots initiatives. Institutional frameworks intended to promote health development are examined in historical and contemporary perspective through case studies on topics such as: malaria, population control, maternal health, HIV/AIDS, and tuberculosis. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units, including SA 101 or 150 or 201W, or must have graduate student status in the Faculty of Health Sciences. Highly recommended: SA 218, 302 and 318. Students who have taken SA 360 in 2004-1 may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
The structural and behavioral implications of aging. Topics included will be: demographic aspects of aging; the relationship of aging to political, economic, familial and other social institutions; the psychological significance of aging. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or SA 201, or acceptance into the diploma program in gerontology, or by consent of instructor. This course is identical to GERO 420 and students cannot take both courses for credit. Students may use GERO 420 to fulfil their major or minor requirements in lieu of SA 420.
Addresses current theoretical and methodological approaches to the anthropological study of consumption and ingestion of diverse substances. Topics include historical perspectives on production, distribution and consumption; power and meaning; inequality and governance of legal and illegal drugs, drug foods, medicines and diverse populations of consumers and ingesters.  Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201, or graduate student status in Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences or Faculty of Health Sciences. Students who have taken SA 460 in 04-1 and 05-1 may not take this course for further credit.
Through a program of focused readings, films, and case studies, this course examines the experiences of women in the Third World in relation to the global economy and reorganization of states and cultures. The course challenges conventional ways of thinking about everyday life in households and workplaces, and emphasizes that issues which may seem specifically third World-based are shared by many around the world. An awareness of this commonality helps us assess the balance of structural constraints and opportunities, and stimulates a discussion on the organization of alternative ways of living. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students who took SA 463 in 2003-1, SA 460 in 2003-3, and SA 360 in 2004-3 may not take this course for further credit.
Through a program of focused readings, case studies, and films, this course offers a new perspective on the study of globalization. It balances classical themes with contemporary approaches to global processes of economic, political, and cultural transformation. The course tackles such topics as the material aspects of cooperation and coercion, class relations in structures of capital accumulation and global governance, and cultural dynamics. Alternatives to Euro-American centrism are explored through the examples of citizenship, cultural politics, ethnic and religious conflicts, human rights, indigenous rights, and women's rights. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201. Highly recommended: SA 302. Students who took SA 463 in 2004-3 may not take this course for further credit.
This is the last term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program in sociology and anthropology. The work experience will require a high level of expertise in both theoretical conceptions and practical endeavors. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: successful completion of SA 341 and normally the completion of at least 77 units with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75. Students should apply to the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences co-op co-ordinator by the end of the third week of the term preceding the employment term.
A senior seminar on current perspectives in sociological theory. Emphasis will differ from semester to semester. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 350, a GPA of at least 3.25 and consent of the instructor.
A senior seminar on current perspectives in anthropological theory. Emphasis will differ from semester to semester. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 301, a GPA of at least 3.25 and consent of the instructor.
An advanced seminar devoted to special topics in applied social research. The disciplinary designation will change from term to term to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 301 or 350.
An advanced seminar devoted to an in-depth examination of a topic not regularly offered by the department. The disciplinary designation will change from term to term to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: minimum 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201.  Recommended: at least two upper division courses in sociology and/or anthropology.
An examination of processes of social change in selected Third World societies. Topics will change from semester to semester, but may include: liberation movements and colonialism, the comparative study of post-revolutionary societies; the persistence, transformation and disappearance of contemporary pleasantries; directed change programs.  The disciplinary designation will change from term to term to reflect specific topics and whether sociology or anthropology designation: refer to each term's course outline or department advisor. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201. Recommended: SA 363.
Anthropologists frequently turn to historical documents (traveller's reports, missionary archives, etc.) in order to reconstruct the nature of past societies; likewise, every society has a sense of its own past and represents it in its own way. This course examines the relation between history and anthropology. Content may include: the use of historical material in anthropological research; construction of traditional knowledge as a cultural process; history and the politics of culture; the relation between individual and collective memory. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units  including SA 101 or 150 or 201.
An opportunity for senior undergraduates to participate in a seminar concentrating on particular subjects of interest in the fields of social and cultural research among Aboriginal peoples in British Columbia. The course will focus on special topics that will differ from semester to semester. This may include: historical ethnography; policy issues and debates; economic and social development; political and legal relations; gender and generational relations; health and healing; ethnographic film; arts, literature and popular culture; cultural performance; oral tradition; exhibition and representation; cultural property. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201. Recommended: SA 286.
Directed readings in a selected field of study under the direction of a single faculty member. A paper will be required. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students with credit for SA 497 may not take SA 496 for further credit.
Directed readings in a selected field of study under the direction of a single faculty member. A paper will be required. Prerequisite: minimum of 72 units including  SA 101 or 150 or 201. Students with credit for SA 496 may not take SA 497 for further credit.
Advanced field project in a research setting. Admission dependent on availability of appropriate field placements and departmental supervisory capacity. Prerequisite: completion of all major course requirements with the exception of SA 301 for anthropology majors and SA 350 for sociology majors, which may be taken concurrently, and by application.
An honors essay of 30 to 50 pages in length is to be written under the direction of a faculty member and orally defended with a 10 - 15 minute summation. A copy is to be permanently lodged with the department.
Orientation to university, professional development, and cohort building. Required course for the first year MA and PhD students in Sociology and Anthropology.
Presentations by faculty members, senior graduate students, and guest speakers. Required course for first year MA and PhD students in Sociology and Anthropology.
Examines the classical tradition of sociological thought, represented in the writings of a range of early leading theorists such as Karl Marx, Max Weber, Emile Durkheim, Georg Simmel and/or George Herbert Mead. Will also include a review of the writings and influence of thinkers such as Montesquieu, Rousseau, Descartes, Spinoza, Bacon, Hobbes, and/or Locke. Required course for MA and PhD students in Sociology. Students from other departments and faculties may enrol with permission of instructor. Offered each fall term.
Examines at least two perspectives from the body of social theory that has developed since World War II. Perspectives to be discussed may include but are not limited to: symbolic interactionism, feminism, structuralism, post-structuralism, post-marxism, post-modernism, post-cololnialism, queer theory and neo-functionalism. Required course for MA and PhD students in Sociology. Students from other departments and faculties may enrol with permission of instructor. Offered each spring term. Prerequisite: SA 849 or permission of instructor.
No description available
No description available
Examines the use of quantitative methods and statistical analysis in social research. Students will develop the knowledge base and skills necessary to understand and critically evaluate contemporary sociological literature that utilizes advanced quantitative methods. Lab sessions offer students the opportunity to apply a variety of statistical techniques. Prerequisite: An upper division undergraduate course in quantitative methods which covers statistical analysis (including probability and significance, hypothesis testing, and univariate and bivariate techniques), or permission of the instructor.
Examines contemporary approaches to qualitative methodology in Sociology and Anthropology including epistemological and ethical debates surrounding the practice of qualitative methodology in diverse contexts. Students will investigate qualitative research methods applicable to their graduate research projects. Required course for MA and PhD students in Sociology and Anthropology. Students from other departments and faculties may enrol with permission of instructor. Offered each spring term.
Guides students through the process of designing a prospectus for MA or PhD thesis research. Required course for MA and PhD students in Sociology and Anthropology. Students from other departments and faculties may enrol with permission of instructor. Offered each summer term. Prerequisite: SA 856 or permission of instructor.
Examines the dynamic relationship among conceptual aims, social relations in research, and the socio-political contexts of anthropological work through close study of selected works in anthropology since 1970. Required course for MA and PhD students in Anthropology. Students from other departments and faculties may enrol with permission of instructor. Offered each fall term.
No description available
No description available
Examines anthropology in its historical context. An examination of the political, cultural, and intellectual factors that shaped disciplinary discourse of a particular period, and continue to affect present practice. Emphasis may be on particular theorists, and/or particular schools of thought, and/or persistent guiding themes. The goal is to think about anthropology anthropologically, thus complementing the more contemporary focus of SA 870. Prerequisite: SA 870, or equivalent, or permission of instructor.
In depth study of ethnographic methodology as practiced, theorized and debated by social and cultural anthropologists. Course will include anthropological analyses of multi- and interdisciplinary approaches to, and adaptations of, ethnographic methodology and methods. Elective course for MA and PhD students in Sociology and Anthropology. Students from other departments and faculties may enrol with permission of instructor. Course will be offered in response to student demand, dependent on availability of departmental resources.
No description available
An advanced seminar devoted to an in-depth examination of a topic not regularly offered by the department.
Prerequisite: completion of core MA degree requirements SA 850 or 870, and SA 857 plus one (thesis option) or two (extended essay or research project option) of the following: SA 863, 854, 871, 872 and 886 (or equivalent) with a minimum GPA  of 3.0. The recommendation of the student's supervisory committee and the approval of the departmental graduate program committee also is required.
Prerequisite: SA 890.
Prerequisite: SA 891 and departmental approval.
Course objective is to provide a framework and process for students and supervisors to work within to facilitate students' satisfactory preparation for qualifying examinations; and to complete qualifying examinations required for admission to doctoral candidate standing. Prerequisite: All PhD course requirements, with the exception of SA 857 must be completed before student may enrol in SA 897.
No description available
No description available
To be selected by the student and supervisory committee.
To be selected by the student and supervisory committee.
To be selected by the student and supervisory committee.
To be selected by the student and supervisory committee.
To be selected by the student and the supervisory committee.
To be selected by the student and the supervisory committee.
To be selected by the student and the supervisory committee.
No description available
No description available
First required course for the SCD Certificate. Builds an understanding of strengths and weaknesses of conventional approaches to development; rationale for alternative approaches; varying interpretations of community and of development; and essential components for creating local economic development strategies. Sustainable Community Development is introduced as a framework to meet current social and economic needs while ensuring adequate resources are available for future generations. Prerequisite: 30 units or SCD Certificate program approval  or permission of the Director for SCD. Not permitted for credit toward the SCD Post Baccalaureate Diploma. Students who have taken CED or SCD 201 for credit may not take this course for further credit. Corequisite: students may not take this course concurrently with upper division SCD courses. Breadth-Social Sciences.
A theoretical foundation for understanding sustainable development at the community level; including an integrated approach to environmental, economic, and social aspects of development. Emphasizes economic and policy instruments, and planning tools, for engaging in and implementing SCD. Prerequisite: SCD certificate program approval and CED or SCD 201 or SCD diploma program approval or completion of 60 units or permission of the Director for SCD. Students who have taken CED or SCD 301 for credit may not take this course for further credit. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Third required course for the SCD Certificate. Introduction to the theory and practice of social enterprise within a SCD context, including the appropriate form of social enterprise for a particular purpose. Prerequisite: CED or SCD 301, or permission of the Director for SCD. Students who have taken CED or SCD 401 for credit may not take this courses for further credit.
Fourth required course for the SCD Certificate. Concerned with approaches SCD leaders require as agents of change, including: tackling complex community issues in addition to offering innovative tools for engaging others in meaningful collaboration processes. Prerequisite: CED or SCD 301, or permission of the Director for SCD. Students who have taken CED or SCD 403 for credit may not take this course for further credit.
Provides students an opportunity to apply ideas and models acquired in the program to a practical problem in sustainable community development. Required for SCD PBD students. Certificate students must apply for special permission to take this course. Enrollment is limited. Prerequisite: CED or SCD 301, 401, 403 and permission of the Director for SCD. Students who have taken CED or SCD 404 for credit may not take this course for further credit.
A specific topic within the field of sustainable community development, not covered by regularly scheduled, required courses in the program. Prerequisite: CED or SCD 301 or permission of the Director for SCD. Students who have taken CED or SCD 410 with the same topic for credit may not take this course for further credit.
Designed to permit students to expand their knowledge base and apply their critical thinking in SCD. Open to all SCD PBD students. Certificate students must apply for special permission to take this course. Enrollment is limited. Prerequisite: CED or SCD 301, 401, and 403, and permission of the Director for SCD. Students who have taken CED or SCD 412 for credit may not take this course for further credit.
The impact of science in our society. This course introduces upper level university students to all facets of science and their resulting technologies. Governmental policies often involve far-reaching scientific/technological decisions and this course attempts to provide a scientific perspective to help achieve rational and effective policies. Prerequisite: 60 units. Not open to students in the Faculty of Science or the Schools of Computing Science, Engineering Science. Breadth-Science.
First half of first year Spanish. Emphasis on developing conversation and comprehension skills as well as understanding how Spanish grammar works. Students who have completed B.C. high school Spanish 12 within the past two years will not be admitted to SPAN 102 for credit. See the Language Training Institute advisor for placement.
Second half of first year Spanish. As in SPAN 102, the emphasis is on oral skills and grammar while continuing to develop reading and writing proficiency. By the end of the term, students will be able to communicate in Spanish using a wide range of grammatical structures and vocabulary. SPAN 103 should be taken in the term immediately following SPAN 102. Prerequisite: SPAN 102, grade 12 Spanish, or equivalent.
First half of second year Spanish. Students will transfer their knowledge of the structure of Spanish into performance and use the language in an accurate and idiomatic way. The emphasis is on further development of all four skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. By the end of SPAN 201, students will be able to function in a Spanish-speaking environment. Prerequisite: SPAN 103 or equivalent.
Continues the work of SPAN 201 with emphasis on oral command and writing skills. Reading of selected texts will be introduced to expose the students to Hispanic culture. Prerequisite: SPAN 201.
Builds students' receptive and productive vocabulary to prepare them for intensive work in upper level Spanish courses. Prerequisite: SPAN 201 or equivalent.
Detailed examination of contemporary Spanish grammar. Appropriate grammatical usage is reinforced by exercises and writing assignments. Both advanced learners and native speakers will benefit through intensive work on a wide range of grammatical phenomena. Prerequisite: SPAN 202.
Enhances students' conversational skills through activities centred on Spanish language films. A selection of films from different parts of the Hispanic world will expose students not only to dialectal and register differences, but also to cultural practices in a variety of settings. Prerequisite: SPAN 202 or equivalent.
First half of third year Spanish. Conversation and composition with emphasis on correct spelling, sentence and paragraph structure. Prerequisite: SPAN 202 or equivalent.
Second half of third year Spanish. Continues the work of SPAN 303 with emphasis on style. Reading and analysis of selected texts will serve as the basis for further practice in oral and written expression. Prerequisite: SPAN 303 or equivalent.
Provides more advanced students and professionals with the specialized technical Spanish vocabulary needed to function in the business world. Cultural aspects will also be stressed. Prerequisite: SPAN 202.
Introduction to the theory and practice of translation. Literary and academic translations. Analysis of different translating strategies. Cultural and political issues in translation. Prerequisite: SPAN 202 or equivalent.
Chance phenomena and data analysis are studied through simulation and examination of real world contexts including sports, investment, lotteries and environmental issues. Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in Statistics. Students with credit for STAT 101, 201, 203, 270 or BUEC 232 will not receive additional credit for this course. Quantitative/Breadth-Science.
The collection, description, analysis and summary of data, including the concepts of frequency distribution, parameter estimation and hypothesis testing. To receive credit for both STAT 100 and STAT 101, STAT 100 must be taken first.  Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in Statistics.     Students with credit for ARCH 376, BUEC 232 (formerly 332) or STAT 270 (formerly MATH 272 and 371) may not subsequently receive credit for STAT 101. Students with credit for STAT 102,  201, 203 (formerly STAT 103), 301, MATH 101 or 102 may not take STAT 101 for further credit. Quantitative.
Research methodology and associated statistical analysis techniques for students with training in the life sciences. Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in Statistics. Prerequisite: 30 units. Students with credit for STAT 101, 102, 203 (formerly 103), 270 (formerly MATH 272) or 301 may not take STAT 201 for further credit. Quantitative.
Descriptive and inferential statistics aimed at students in the social sciences. Scales of measurement. Descriptive statistics. Measures of association. Hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. Students in Sociology and Anthropology are expected to take SA 255 before this course. Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in Statistics. Students with credit for STAT 101, 102, 103, 201, 270, ARCH 376 or, BUEC 232 (formerly 332), may not subsequently receive credit for this course. Recommended: a research methods course such as SA 255, CRIM 120, POL 213 or equivalent is recommended prior to taking STAT 203. Quantitative.
Basic laws of probability, sample distributions. Introduction to statistical inference and applications. Corequisite: MATH 152 or 155 or 158. Students wishing an intuitive appreciation of a broad range of statistical strategies may wish to take STAT 100 first. Quantitative.
This course is a continuation of STAT 270. Review of probability models. Procedures for statistical inference from survey results and experimental data. Statistical model building. Elementary design of experiments and regression methods. Introduction to lifetime analysis. Introduction to time series. Introduction to stochastic processes. Prerequisite: STAT 270. Prerequisite or corequisite: MATH 232. This course may not be taken for credit by students who have credit for STAT 330 prior to the Fall 03-3 term. Quantitative.
Topics in areas of probability and statistics not covered in the regular undergraduate curriculum of the department. Prerequisite: dependent on the topic covered.
Guided experiences in written and oral communication of statistical ideas and results with both scientific and lay audiences. Prerequisite: Admission to the major or honors programs in statistics or actuarial science at Simon Fraser University . Corequisite: STAT 350. Writing.
The standard techniques of multiple regression analysis, analysis of variance, and analysis of covariance, and their role in experimental research. Prerequisite: any STAT course except STAT 100, or BUEC 232, or ARCH 376. Students cannot obtain credit for STAT 302 if they already have credit for STAT 350, or if they are simultaneously enrolled in STAT 302 and STAT 350. Statistics major and honors students may not use this course to satisfy the required number of elective units of upper division statistics. However, they may include the course to satisfy the total number of required units of upper division credit. Quantitative.
Review of probability and distributions. Multivariate distributions. Distributions of functions of random variables. Limiting distributions. Inference. Sufficient statistics for the exponential family. Maximum likelihood. Bayes estimation, Fisher information, limited distributions of MLEs. Likelihood ratio tests. Prerequisite: STAT 285 and MATH 251. Quantitative.
This is the first term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to statistics students. Interested students should contact their departmental advisors as early in their career as possible for proper counselling. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree. Prerequisite: students must apply and receive permission from the co-op co-ordinator at least one but preferably two terms in advance. They will normally be required to have completed 45 units with a GPA of 2.5 before they may take this practicum course. The course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
This is the second term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to statistics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: STAT 336 or Job Practicum I from another department. Students must apply and receive permission from the co-op co-ordinator at least one term in advance. The course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
Theory and application of linear regression. Normal distribution theory. Hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. Model selection. Model diagnostics. Introduction to weighted least squares and generalized linear models. Prerequisite: STAT 285 and MATH 251. Quantitative.
Review of discrete and continuous probability models and relationships between them. Exploration of conditioning and conditional expectation. Markov chains. Random walks. Continuous time processes. Poisson process. Markov processes. Gaussian processes. Prerequisite: STAT 285 and MATH 251 or consent of instructor. Quantitative.
Topics in areas of probability and statistics not covered in the regular undergraduate curriculum of the department. Prerequisite: dependent on the topic covered.
A problem-based course emphasizing the exploratory aspects of statistical analysis with emphasis on modern computer-oriented methods. Prerequisite: STAT 350. Quantitative.
A skills oriented unified approach to a broad array of non-linear regression modelling methods including classical regression, logistic regression, probit analysis, dilution assay, frequency count analysis, ordinal-type responses, and survival data. Prerequisite: STAT 350. Quantitative.
A practical introduction to useful sampling techniques and intermediate level experimental designs. Prerequisite: STAT 302 or 350. Students with credit for STAT 410 or 430 may not take STAT 403 for further credit. Statistics minor, major and honors students may not use this course to satisfy the required number of elective units of upper division Statistics. However, they may include the course to satisfy the total number of required units of upper division credit. Intended to be particularly accessible to students who are not specializing in Statistics. Quantitative.
An introduction to the major sample survey designs and their mathematical justification. Associated statistical analyses. Prerequisite: STAT 350. Quantitative.
An extension of the designs discussed in STAT 350 to include more than one blocking variable, incomplete block designs, fractional factorial designs, and response surface methods. Prerequisite: STAT 350 (or MATH 372). Quantitative.
This is the third term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to statistics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: STAT 337 or Job Practicum II from another department. Students must apply and receive permission from the co-op co-ordinator at least one term in advance. The course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
This is the fourth term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to statistics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: STAT 436 or Job Practicum III from another department. Students must apply and receive permission from the co-op co-ordinator at least one term in advance. The course will be graded on a pass-withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
This is an optional fifth term of work experience in a co-operative education program available to statistics students. Units from this course do not count towards the units required for an Simon Fraser University degree.  Prerequisite: STAT 437 or Job Practicum IV from another department. Students must apply and receive permission from the co-op co-ordinator at least one term in advance. The course will be graded on a pass/withdraw basis. A course fee is required.
Distribution theory, methods for constructing tests, estimators, and confidence intervals with special attention to likelihood methods. Properties of the procedures including large sample theory. Prerequisite: STAT 330. Quantitative.
The Bayesian approach to statistics is an alternative and increasingly popular way of quantifying uncertainty in the presence of data. This course considers comparative statistical inference, prior distributions, Bayesian computation, and applications. Prerequisite: STAT 330 and 350. Quantitative.
Topics in areas of probability and statistics not covered in the regular undergraduate curriculum of the department.  Prerequisite: dependent on the topic covered.
Independent reading or research on consultation with the supervising instructor. Prerequisite: written permission of the department undergraduate studies committee.
A methods oriented unified approach to a broad array of nonlinear regression modelling methods including classical regression, logistic regression, probit analysis, dilution assay, frequency count analysis, ordinal type responses, and survival data. A project will be assigned related to the student's field of study. Prerequisite: STAT 302 or 350 or permission of instructor. Open only to graduate students in departments other than Statistics and Actuarial Science.
The use of statistical techniques and mathematical models in resource management with special emphasis on experimentation, survey techniques, and statistical model construction. Prerequisite: A course in parametric and non-parametric statistics. This course may not be used for the satisfaction of degree requirements in the Department of  Statistics and Actuarial Science.
Advanced mathematical statistics. A survey of basic concepts in point estimation, interval estimation and hypothesis testing. Principles of inference.
An advanced course in multivariate analysis. Factor analysis, discriminant analysis, principal components, canonical correlations. Multivariate regression and analysis of variance.
An introduction to time series models and their analysis. Both time-domain and frequency-domain techniques will be studied. Prerequisite: STAT 450 or equivalent or permission of the instructor.
Order statistics, rank statistics, procedures based on the empirical distribution function. Asymptotic efficiencies, goodness-of-fit, contingency tables, log-linear models and further topics will be offered. Prerequisite: STAT 330 or equivalent or permission of the instructor.
Statistical methodology used in analysing failure time data. Likelihoods under various censoring patterns. Inference using parametric regression models including the exponential, Weibull, lognormal, generalized gamma distributions. Goodness-of-fit tests. The proportional hazards family, and inference under the proportional hazards model. Stratification and blocking in proportional hazards models. Time dependent covariates. Regression methods for grouped data. Prerequisite: STAT 450.
This course is designed to give students some practical experience as a statistical consultant through classroom discussion of issues in consulting and participation in the department's Statistical Consulting Service under the direction of faculty members or the director.
Students will participate in the department's Statistical Consulting Service under the direction of faculty members or the director.
Application of stochastic processes: queues, inventories, counters, etc. Reliability and life testing. Point processes. Simulation.
First term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
Second term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
Third term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
Fourth term of work experience in the Co-operative Education Program.
No description available
A course to be team taught by current and visiting faculty and with topics chosen to match the interests of the students.
No description available
No description available
No description available
No description available
Teaches essential skills for negotiating first-year course work successfully. Covers the principles, practice and understanding of effective communication, research, critical thinking and teamwork needed within both face-to-face and virtual environments. Presents opportunities to practice and develop communication and interpersonal skills, and make that expertise transferable from the classroom to the workplace.
Teaches essential skills for negotiating first-year course work successfully. Covers the principles, practice and understanding of effective communication, research, critical thinking and teamwork needed within both face-to-face and virtual environments. Presents opportunities to practice and develop communication and interpersonal skills, and make that expertise transferable from the classroom to the workplace. Writing.
Introduces the role of technologies in an increasingly complex world. Explores the nature and evolution of technology. Provides firsthand experience with a variety of computer, communication and engineering technologies and assesses the impact and consequences of technology on both the individual and societal levels. Themes examined in this course focus on the use of technologies in situated applications and everyday contexts, giving students experience in relating the achievements of technology to human needs. Breadth-Social Sciences.
Investigates the role that design and the designer play in the world around us, and explores how design facilitates our understanding of our environment and facilitates communication with others. Examines the importance of precedent in design and how examples, models, patterns or standards reflect learning and critical thinking. Throughout the course students will, individually and in teams, use design questioning processes as tools to develop their critical thinking skills and to explore the role that design plays in their lives and the daily functioning of their communities. Breadth-Social Sciences.
This course is an examination of urban design as a discipline that involves the environmental, aesthetic, social, economic, geographic, ecological, historical, political, and cultural aspects of the built environment. The importance of creative design, the interrelationship between the spatial organization of a city, its efficient delivery of services, the social, cultural and economic considerations of the public realm, as well as the process of change in our pluralistic society will all be considered.
This course is an introduction to the anthropological and sociological study of complex urban societies in comparative perspective. It includes study of anthropological and sociological approaches to urbanization, the nature of the city as a social system, and urban communities and cultures.
The focus of this course is the evolving relationship between state interventions into the city, and dynamics of urban development. The class emphasizes the historical context to urban planning and policy, with particular reference to the Canadian city.
Examines the forces that have created and perpetuated urban social inequality, along with its political, economic, and cultural impact on cities. Explores the social movements, planning efforts, and policy initiatives that have tackled urban poverty and social exclusion in the struggle to create just cities.
The aim of this course is to develop a perspective on the study of urbanization by applying systematic approaches to specific regional and case contexts. Major theoretical and conceptual themes will be reviewed. Some emphasis will be placed upon the Canadian experience in order to develop a common ground among members of the course and some emphasis will be also placed upon the United States and Western Europe because of the dominance of those collective urban experiences and literatures. However, members of the course will be expected to develop an interest in a particular region, assemble a personal bibliography and report to the class on their enquiries. The list of references given to the class may be perused for selected items to initiate this personal work. Emphasis will be placed upon individual and/or participatory research.
In this course, we begin to answer the question: what does the idea of sustainable development mean for cities? Using case studies from Vancouver and around the world, we will seek to understand how urban sustainable development innovations are developed, designed, and implemented. Special attention will be paid to the importance of sustainable development linkages between urban issues related to economic development, social justice, and environmental conservation and protection.
This course is intended to confront students with many of the current administrative, policy, inter-governmental and political challenges of local/urban/city-regional government in the 21st century. It will enable students to critically evaluate the varied nature and development of urban and metropolitan governance through an assessment of differing city-regional forms and responsibilities. The primary emphasis is on: social, economic and political sustainability; ethnic, gender and ecological re-definitions of the city; urban fiscal constraints and possibilities; urban governance and local democracy; intergovernmental challenges; urban responses to and re-definitions of re-globalization; case studies of agenda setting and other policy cycle stages. The primary seminar focus is on urban Canada but comparative cases will be drawn from the United States, the EU, Asia and other jurisdictions.
Students will critically evaluate and apply various approaches and concepts in assessing the phenomenon of the global city. Assessment of current Canadian and comparative cases and settings provides a basis for this examination, as does the various stages of the policy cycle.
Explores the relationships between mobility, economic activity, and social interaction that influence urban development. Topics considered will include the spatial dynamics underlying travel behavior, the vehicle and infrastructure technology used in meeting mobility needs, the organizations that deliver transportation services and the public policies that govern an urban transportation system.
Examination of the roles of housing in an urban society, the evolution of urban housing policy in Canada, the policies that shape the existing housing system, and proposals for modifying housing policies and programs. The role of affordable housing as an essential component of a sustainable community will be emphasized.
Offers a tip-to-all approach to researching urban public policy problems, from imagining projects, to gathering interpreting data and presenting findings to the public. The emphasis of this program is for students to be able to understand the work of others and design their own studies. In addition to this, students are trained in how to apply descriptive statistics such as means, measures of spread and cross-tabulation. Students wishing to deepen their quantitative skills, such as multivariate, qualitative or spatial analysis, will be encouraged to take advanced programs offered in affiliated departments.
Reviews several traditional and contemporary theories of urban economic development, exploring the historical context, content and policy implications of each.
Examines theories of public management in an urban context; how governments allocate resources, distribute income and regulate public enterprise in both pure and applied contexts. Taking a 'champion vs. challenger' approach, the first segment of the course describes in detail the dominant theory in public management - new public management - and then contrasts this theory with others common to the discipline including traditional approaches, cultural theory, representative bureaucracy and new institutionalism. The theory is illustrated using examples from the municipalities within the Greater Vancouver Regional District and other Canadian and international cities.
The focus of this course is the distribution of health status within urban centers in Canada, and related health policy developments. The course will emphasize the systematic nature of health status distribution, the historical pattern of health inequality, emerging analyses of the role of 'place' in shaping health patterns, housing and health, and attempts to reformulate social policy in urban contexts to address 'social determinants' of health inequality in Canada.
The city has long been a subject of, and site for, cultural reflection. This course recognizes that cultural and political ideas are not context-free. The course focuses on modern and postmodern thought and their relation to the evolving city.
Supervised readings in an aspect of urban studies. Enrolment in URB 693 requires the prior approval of the Urban Studies Graduate Program Committee.
Supervised readings in an aspect of urban studies. Enrolment in URB 694 requires the prior approval of the Urban Studies Graduate Program Committee.
This course provides an opportunity for students to  study one or more urban studies topics that lie beyond the scope of the other courses. This course will normally provide a  more research-intensive experience than other graduate urban studies courses.
In-depth study of two or three areas of urban studies with particular attention to (1) the contributions of various disciplines and (2) the development of a proposal for research to explore a suitable area of particular interest to the student. Where feasible, students will be involved with external organizations in developing their research proposal.
A research project on some aspect of urban studies supervised by a faculty member with the participation of a supervisory committee. Prerequisites: URB 696.
Completion of a research project on some aspect of urban studies supervised by a faculty member with the participation of a supervisory committee. This course is intended for students who do not complete URB 697 within one month of the end of the term in which they are enrolled in it. Prerequisite: URB 697.
Explores how texts resonate in other cultural contexts, influence foreign traditions, and become works of world literature. Breadth-Humanities.
Examines international migrancy, cultural identities, or cross-cultural influence in world literatures, while introducing the fundamentals of literary analysis and expository writing. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Surveys pre-modern texts of world literature. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Surveys poetry and prose from the seventeenth-century to the present, with a focus on the literary exploration of issues of humanity. Writing/Breadth-Humanities.
Introduces major theoretical approaches to literature and fundamental techniques of literary analysis. Develops students' critical skills for analytical writing about literature in comparative, cross-cultural contexts. Prerequisite: nine units in World Literature, including WL 100, 103, or 104.
Explores the relationship between Eastern and Western narratives. The focus may include the mutual influence of Eastern and Western cultural traditions and modernities, the construction of the 'East' in the West and of the 'West' in the East, theories of Orientalism and Occidentalism, and forms of East/West syncretism. Prerequisite: three units in World Literature or six units of B-Hum designated courses. Breadth-Humanities
Explores how European traditions have influenced and engaged the cultures of the global 'South'. The focus may encompass the cultures and counter-cultures of empire and globalization and the 'tropicalization' of European genres and cultural forms under the influence of artists from Africa, Latin-America, and South Asia. Prerequisite: three units in World Literature or six units of B-Hum designated courses. Breadth-Humanities.
Explores the cross-cultural trajectory of a genre or genres of world literature. Prerequisite: three units in World Literature or six units of B-Hum designated courses. Breadth-Humanities.
Examines a diversity of world literature concerning Human Rights. May focus on writing in the face of political oppression, censorship, political and economic displacement, terrorism and/or warfare. Prerequisite: three units in World Literature or six units of B-Hum designated courses. Breadth-Humanities.
Explores the counterpoint of Western and non-Western approaches to world literature. May draw from disciplines including comparative literature, history and anthropology, and focus on how concepts of world literature are imported into new cultural contexts. Prerequisite: 12 units in World Literature, including WL 200.
Examines scholarly and other professional styles of writing about literature, focusing on representative genres, approaches and practices through a selected topic in world literature. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature. Writing.
Explores cultural expressions of sameness and difference in an age of globalization and its discontents. May focus on transnational expressions of secularism and faith or of the metropolis and suburbia, or on forms of cross-pollination in world literature, cinema and music. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Explores the culture of peoples and individuals displaced by force or migrating by choice. May focus on the plight of refugees in the work of playwrights, essayists and novelists, on the work of emigre artists in different cultural traditions, or on a comparison of the literary cultures of exiles and emigres. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Explores wisdom literature, poetry, or the resonance of faith in secular world literatures. May focus on cross-cultural mystical quests, secular re-castings of narratives of faith and conversion, or the interplay of the religious and the secular in comparative supernatural literatures. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses. Writing.
A comparative approach to literary romanticisms and romantic texts. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Explores the cultures of imperialism in a cross-continental and comparative framework. May focus on chronicles of discovery, moments of colonial contact, critiques of empire, and the imperial engagement with pre-conquest cultures. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Explores post-imperial notions of culture and universality, tradition and modernity, or nation and cosmopolis. May focus on narratives of independence, postcolonial self-fashioning, and imperial nostalgia. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Intermediate seminar on selected literary texts in relation to their social, historical, cultural, or theoretical contexts. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Intermediate seminar on interdisciplinary research that informs the study of World Literature. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Seminar on a topic in World Literature. Prerequisite: 45 units including nine units in World Literature or nine units of B-Hum designated courses.
Independent reading and research on a topic selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. A research essay is required. Prerequisite: two 100 division World Literature courses, two 200 division World Literature courses, and two 300 division World Literature courses. Reserved for World Literature honors, major, and minor students. Admission is by permission of the instructor and Director.
Explores the discovery, resonance, and/or influence of ancient literature and culture. May focus on the role and poetics of ancient cultures in modern writing. Prerequisite: 60 units including two 300 level courses in World Literature, English, or Humanities.
Explores early modern literature across cultures. May compare Eastern and Western texts or focus on the cross-cultural influence of a single genre or author. Prerequisite: 60 units including two 300 level courses in World Literature, English, or Humanities.
Explores the mutual constitution of modernity in North and South. May focus on modernism and its enemies, case studies of alternative modernities, or the pre-modern in discourses of the modern and anti-modern. Prerequisite: 60 units including two 300 level courses in World Literature, English, or Humanities.
Explores works of contemporary world literature in the second half of the twentieth century. May focus on the postmodern as a response to the modern, on prevalent postmodern genres, or on the postmodern engagement with developments in philosophy, science, and the media in East and West. Prerequisite: 60 units including two 300 level courses in World Literature, English, or Humanities.
Advanced seminar on a topic in World Literature. Prerequisite: 60 units including two 300 level courses in World Literature, English, or Humanities.
Independent study of literature in a language other than English. Prerequisite: Admission by permission of the instructor and department.
Independent reading and research on a topic selected in consultation with the supervising instructor. A research essay is required. Prerequisite: two 100 division World Literature courses, two 200 division World Literature courses, and two 300 division World Literature courses. Reserved for World Literature honors, major, and minor students. Admission is by permission of the instructor and Director.
Directed studies research for an honors essay. Students will present research for their honors essay to the class. Prerequisite: lower division requirements for the World Literature major plus 12 units of upper division requirements including WL 300 and WL 301W. Open only to students who have been accepted into the World Literature honors program. Admission is by permission of the Instructor and the Director.
Directed studies for completion of an honors essay. Prerequisite: WL 480. Open only to students who have been accepted into the World Literature honors program. Admission is by permission of the Instructor and the Director.